hi all good evening hello himangi I'm having a bit fever but yeah I think you
can feel it through my voice cold and fever so yeah energy levels are a bit
low how's everyone doing good good great so guys like are you like how many of
you have a participate in contest fun and clear give me thumbs up if you
participated and cleared and if you couldn't clear or you didn't participate
give me thumbs down that works too okay I see one thumbs down and six thumbs up
we have few more people who didn't participate in it but just an
announcement right for a sake because your clearance rate right contest
clearance rate will matter okay so recently in scaler what they have done
is if you are not able to clear on on line one then you can go in a excise
mode like post contest though in when you do it in excise mode you won't be
your result would not be added on to boredom which is like which happens at
real time but I would suggest people who didn't participate or who couldn't
clear rate try to reattempt an exercise mode right like you would be able to
access that now right is it fine guys like would you be would would you try
that because I just want you to you know give an attempt and see your test your
knowledge whenever you have bandwidth just attempt your like contest on
pretty simple like MCQ based is that clear race
cool and one more thing I was just a bit worried about is that you know our
our average PSP's of batch are reducing going down downwards okay just want to
know if people who are in class are a are solving assignments just about
assignment problems like is there any challenge who are not able to do it for
able to do it and you know on track give me thumbs up I see two people gave me
some sir but we all of you can give me a what's up cool so I say most of them who
are in the class are you know attempting how much for contest clearance what's a
percentage yes for contestance is it 50 or 70 what is the percentage doesn't
even know it 80 okay so 80 percentage so it's an it's a practice mode right
some bits you can try it in practice mode or exercise mode generally practice
mode is our term they used where is the contest link okay I don't exactly know
but I think it should be available your post HTML and CSS classes in the
curriculum left panel wherever you have your menu okay okay you can check there
I'll be shake if you didn't find let me know I'll ask someone you know to record
a video and share it with you guys because I don't have access to your
dashboards okay
what's up I don't really know Kiran on that
it should be there reattempts should be there some bit let me recheck I'll check
with the you know my contact and we'll come back to you on that yeah after his
shame and CSS prep shake you can add it without section some bit I'll pick it up
later yeah we can use script anywhere tag
could be it's up to you like practice mode is available so please do leverage
that practice mode and try to solve your assignment problems it you can
improve the score but as I told you that you know whatever score or podium
during live contest you got it that will be reflecting but it's always for the
practice when they say practice it's a practice I mean it practice mode will
count as a contest clearance but that score like if you have scored earlier
0 or 100 or 80 that will be fixed but if you need a clearance right contest
clearance you can attempt it in practice mode that's what I want to say just like
go through that model like have done that part completely that model okay but
it throws me okay yeah we'll discuss in discussion set out session anything else
is everyone is talking to me personally many people might not have contest what
I'm speaking about whom I'm talking to okay so how's everyone feeling with
respect to HTML and CSS and the concepts that we have discussed till now is
everyone feeling good about that like any challenges like are those concepts
clear to you great I receive one reply okay great guys so font awesome okay so
Muneshwara asked me related to the script why did I use this font awesome
script so in order to use yeah we'll do that I mean we'll do that before I start
so let's get can anyone drop me a you know message in whatsapp group then
we'll start I'm not exactly sure like if it affects your placements but if you
are generating a resume through scalar or you are adding your contest results in
resume that that looks there other than that thing I think if recruiter want to
reach you out from the scalar point of view right they might see that whether
you are PSP and contest clearance rates are maintained so with those those
that's a flag for them right whether this particular student is doing all
the things he's supposed to do so those are the points they generally try to
filter you out on while they're trying to reach out nothing at these are so
just we are getting started
there's anyone dropped message you're great thank you Muneshwara thank you
Pradeep let's let's get started so my iPad is working fine right screen
share you can see it double check no okay give me a second I was writing so
many things still now guys you can see the screen share okay so I was writing
many things here about contest and stuff I used it anyways
so I'll try to you know recap the things that we have done so firstly in
last class right we started with something called as Kanban board a
project which we are trying to you know build this using a simple plain native
HTML CSS and JS right so first we understood what this product is like
what time what this product is then using SDLC process so when I say
SDLC software development lifecycle let me write this keyword using using this
approach we understood that there's a team called product then there is a team
called UI UX then there is a engineering team or you can say deaf deaf team so
product is someone who gathers all the requirements that need to be addressed
or enhancements in the product then UI UX are supposed to build experience and
interfaces look at you didn't miss so experiences and interfaces then there is
someone who actually implements and writes code right this work we discussed
then we started we did this both things we gathered all the requirements then we
you know did we gathered all the wireframes that we want to see we have
checked on this then we started with something like they work where we have
designed all the skeleton of our project using HTML CSS right till this part we
have covered isn't it so going back to the code if you see here what we have
covered in last class if you see the whole HTML part we divided into three
parts like one is toolbox creation where we had an app bar and inside the
neighbor we had two things one is color panel which we will be developing a
feature called for useful filtering then there are action buttons like adding a
new task or removing the new task I mean existing task then if you go for main
ticket container you have all the tickets which are existing tickets that
have been created or the tasks that you have that you have to address it in the
main ticket in the bottom container we have model we have designed a model
inside the model we had something with text area then we had like all the
colors that we need like while you are selecting what is status of the ticket
then similarly for each of this particular classes we have defined the
styles and this one thing that we have done differently said we you know added
some extra icons like if you see in the action button container we had two icons
F a solid F a plus F a solid F a mark this two two things are coming of a font
awesome in order to download the code from the font awesome we use the script
which is downloading the JS logic and this script is specific to my this user
That is my credentials. So this is a dynamic ID generated on my email log
Okay, so using this script we were able to download the logic icons
Okay, I hope the things are clear till now guys what we have covered in the last class
I just try to skim through it. It's we
Here anyone having any doubts because we will be building more on that today like what we have done last class
We'll be working on that
Okay, great. I
See a few thumbs up. Okay. So now in today's class, right? Mostly
We will be working on few
Implementation one is for ticket generation. We'll see how can we you know generate a ticket dynamically with user information
And use a color now whatever priority color is re-selecting then second thing we'll see like
Making a dynamic first will make a static then we'll make a dynamic
Then we'll also see like a delete functionality of our ticket
Okay, so we are keeping the simple as today's class reason behind it's more of a you know
What we say conversational class like it's a pair programming when I'm building this project
So it is something that I'm discussing more with you then you are suggesting me then will be implemented
In the next class, we'll talk on a locking mechanism then local storage and all that and stuff
Is that clear this these are the two features we are going to implement and making it dynamic
Good us let's let's get started with the ticket, you know
creation part now
First and foremost thing let's go back and let's launch this project
opening with live server
Here is what we have project here. So let me divide this into multiple files. I
Have it here. Then I need another thing a script file
Is on the left right?
Do let me know if the if you are able to see or if I if I need to zoom it in
Obvious code if it is clearly visible
Do doesn't even find any challenge. It's clear, right? Great
No
no guys like since it was a more of a
Conversational thing now, let's see what we have done in last class. No in last class
We made something like, you know, we designed this multiple ticket containers
We copy wasted and created a list of ticket containers
Inside main ticket container now if you see here these all are static, but there's no use of this particular things, right?
So we have to figure it out how we can make it dynamic
Okay, first and foremost
Let's see. Let's say that if I have a function
Which is creating a ticket for me. Let's say I say that const
Create ticket
Okay, I have this function now
You are you guys are going to help me out how we can build this function. So first
Think of it like if I want to create it, let's not create a dynamic one as of now
Let's create a one static
you know what when I said ticket like how would you create how how would you render it onto the
Existing screen or you can say this piece
Just see the dome on the left you have this is the same thing Dom will be rendering
This is how the classes will be rendered. So just think of it like what can be done? What can be the first step?
First and foremost step like what do you think like it should be there?
Each and every step that comes to your mind just keep writing it down
So that will build idea on it. Let's say I just want to create a ticket now
What is the structure of ticket like I for surely I cannot write down the static content
Right when I want to create a ticket because user is supposed to be giving me an information, isn't it?
That point is clear
You know, so what how this thing will behave is like we are not supposed to be writing anything here
This will be cons like commented all the tickets that you generate dynamically will be added inside this block now
Just think of it. Like how can you build this do we need to get a main ticket container?
There are some create element inside it. Okay, so
What would be the first step main ticket container?
So some mid says that we need to get an access to this particular main ticket container and add all the tiles into this
Container is that point clear race? Are you able to are you aligned with what somebody the idea is?
So it can you copy paste your?
personal message to the call of them
So that everyone can align with your idea or what you suggested
Or else let me do that
Give me a second
So, yeah, thank you something
So this is what some bit just said like hey get an access to the main ticket container where you look at that
All created tickets. Now, let's say if I want to get an access to the main ticket container
How can I do it I'll say that this is a main ticket
container
Inside that so I'm supposed to write this few things offline that everyone does know it
Like document it very selector all then inside this I have to supposed to be selecting the class of this one
right
Right
That's I copy this I basis. I had a hang of this one. No, okay. It's fine. This
Main ticket container is available now inside this function what I'll be doing it
How
And what would you do it? Like let's say there's a ticket firstly. We are focusing on creating a ticket
How would you do it this function what it would do it?
specifically like
How could you write a generate a you know dynamic
HTML inside JS
What are the functions in that the document API that we have such that we can create?
You know HTML elements
Because all the ticket is like, you know inside this particular container if you see on the left side
Ticket information is again wrapped inside this container
Called ticket container
Do you guys see this
Just think of this one like I have a ticket container
Inside this thing. I'll be adding everything dynamic data
Yeah, so we are supposed to create this particular outer dev, right
And how can you create a dev just think of a
And how can you create a dev just think of it, how can you create a dev map is fine when you want to
You know, I treat to it but just focusing on creating one ticket as of now or
Create element right now. Let's say firstly what we'll do is like we'll try to create this particular dev. Okay, let's say that
Let's I say that this is a ticket container
And I have something like document dot
Create element
Inside this and what I'm supposed to pass is which type of element do we need?
Dev, right
No
Once I have this element
What I'll be doing it just think of it
Think of it like what we'll be doing it. Let's say we have whole ticket generated here
Now what would be the thing that we would be doing it?
What could be use case of this one
Where you will render this ticket container just think of that one
Now
Can you see it in the html this ticket container is rendered inside some part some external dev
Right inside main ticket
Is everyone able to see this inside main ticket? All these tickets are supposed to be children of main ticket
you know
So how you can you how you would be able to add this ticket? Let's say we have the ticket built now
How would you add this ticket container append child, right?
Let's say that I have this ticket built already
I'll say that ticket build dot
Append child
Let's say not this ticket container, but this main cricket container where we have this part
Main ticket container dot in on main ticket container append
A new child and the new child would be this ticket container
Is this point clear guys to everyone?
Why i'm doing this is anyone still having any doubt?
What what why I did this or
Anything like even if you miss small thing do let me know i'm just trying to replicate this behavior
So i'm thinking i'm assuming that
I'm having this whole container and I have to add this all the tickets which are generated inside this main ticket container as a child
That is the thing that I have done
now
Now comes the main rule now, let's say
Do you see any css class applied to this each ticket?
A common css class
Right this ticket container right then how let's say this is the day i'm having it
How can I apply css to this class?
How can I apply css to this particular container?
This is something you might have already discussed
Uh class name works fine like there's a one common function
Uh, okay class list and add all things are good great
Yeah set attribute. So does anyone remember all remember set attribute?
That can be also used to try to add multiple attributes, whatever you have it
Okay, so
guys
People who gave me thumbs up, let's say in the dev whenever you have multiple key value pairs
All these things are called as attributes. Now if you want to add any attribute
using javascript
You can uh, you know add all the things using a function called set attribute on the particular html element
Let's say if you see set attribute i'm having this function inside this i'll be saying that i'm adding a class
On this class I can give a class name that is like defined in the css which is ticket.Container
Is this point clear guys what I just did it
Uh, I just want to see who gave me thumbstone. I just want to reach a Krishna. Is that clear like why we use set attribute?
Good
So once we have done this now what we have done we have created our dev we added a css class to it
Then we whatever tickets are being generated. We added it to the main container now
Let's say I pick whole contain contain data
How can I add an html inside one container in js any ideas like how can we add?
Let's say this is a dev that we created
uh and
Inside this dev
Wow, great guys
Thank you for all answers in a text is used for adding text, uh, but inner html is more right
Thing would be right
So ticket container dot let's say inner html
So inside this inner html whatever I have let's say I copy this content
Let's say copy this content
And I gave like let's say I put it in a string format
and
so since this
It would not take this. Let's say I give back traces
And I gave it this way
now
So what did I do it here is that I just copy pasted the existing ticket and i'm removing all the tickets that are present currently
Okay
Let's say I removed it. I kept this empty dev as of now
Okay
Is this point clear guys
Inner html i'm leveraging it to add an html and then start but the thing we are adding into this main ticket container
Now comes the main logic
When we will be calling this create ticket
Okay, when we should call create ticket
So
Won't work with between this one, let's say this this is a multi-line right so that I was thinking this way
It won't work if you want to comment a multi-line, uh, you should be giving a back back text
Okay
On close of model container, uh says
abhishek
Else in avo function
Let's just think of it, uh
From ticket creation point of view right we created a function
And this function should be called
Whenever we are doing some action on this model, isn't it?
We are doing some action on this model then it is supposed to create a ticket for us
Now do we have any button here such that we can submit it or click on it?
Create button we don't have button as of now to create a ticket, right?
This plus icon is just rendering a model
so what if I
select a particular key, uh from a keyboard itself like when a user clicks a particular key from a keyboard
Then uh, we ask we can say that okay create the container
Is that fine guys
So what i'm saying is that
The rest is that shift button now the discussion comes between
With that to select an enter button a return button control command shift any button, right?
so
The common use cases revolves around two things one is enter and shift key now I
Don't want to use enter or alt or any other button, right? I
Why i'm trying to move away from enter first
Because if you see in the text area if i'm adding a content then if I want to move to the next line, right?
I'll be using an enter key. Then i'll be entering it
So when you are typing in the text and by chance if you click and enter
Uh, the ticket will be created instead of that you go and enter into the second content
Is that clear guys why I won't be preferring enter at first point
So let's let's uh take uh, who suggested zero suggested us. Let's pick it up shift key. Okay
Let's pick it up shift and try to say it now
firstly
What type of event we are trying to listen?
What type of event is like shift? Uh
Type of thing is like
key press
key press
Inside key press, uh, do you see there are two types of events?
Have you heard of this thing called?
key up
and
key down
These two events what this event talks about
What this event talks about
So there are two events, okay, let's see let's explore this I was just trying to key up key down
Okay. Now if you go and see
Uh
Now let's say I don't go to this one, but I go to this mdm blocks
Okay
So as people suggested key press so key press was actually deprecated
Okay, that is not more anymore used for that reason you can explore why it was deprecated and uh things
Instead of this thing we have two things key down and key up. Okay. So what does key down suggest?
Whenever user is clicking button as soon as it clicks enter click shift
Make an api call or create or do some function or execute that listener
Those all things will be done
Key up is something how it works is like as soon as you click shift. It doesn't execute it
Only once you leave that button up once it is back in the up like, you know default state
then the
Event list will start executed
Is that basic difference clear? What is key up and key down?
Like when you press down as soon as you press down
The listener will be listing it and acting on it
But key up is once your button is back up, then the code will be executed
So that's a basic difference
so
What you want to prefer whether key down or key up like as soon as you click the key?
You want to execute it or as soon as you leave the key you want to?
Execute it. What could be your choice?
Anything works it key up
Okay, so most of the people says
I mean, it doesn't matter like anything will work. So
Let's say if I go up with a key up how this makes difference. Okay
Now
Let's get started now. Firstly, where would you add this key up or key down? Just think of that one first
Where this event will be added where you want to add a listener to
Going back here in the project
Where would you add it?
This key up event or key down event where you want to listen?
Text area body
Or do you mind if I click it outside text area and I create the ticket?
What if I'm on overall what if I'm on overall this model and click anywhere?
A shift key it should be created, right?
Does it find a better idea?
Whenever on model like anyone clicks shift and we create a ticket, right?
So let's let's do that same thing. So what I'll do is that
Since we have already model container, right? Let's copy this model container
And let's say I say that add event listener
now
Let's build using key down then we'll also see key up nothing much difference. Okay
I was using just you know suggestion, whatever it suggested
Auto code
Okay, this is a function like default way where how you add a listener now
What we are supposed to do here in this list? Just think of it what we are supposed to do
Once I had event listener
Right
Let's say whatever event i'm getting let's say this is an event that i'm receiving
No
Let's let's see this. What is this event is talking about?
What all things that we have in this event?
Once a user clicks
Let's say I open this I open shift inspect tool
And I go to a console log
I remove this
I go to console log. Let's say I am here. I click a shift if you see a key mode event it shows
If I expand this it shows all the information about location and stuff and everything
Okay
So if you see it shows the type of key down because we were listening to the key down events
but
now
Think of it here. Do you see any particular thing which helps us to find?
Like which key we clicked it is there anything
Which helps us to find out which thing we have clicked inside this message or utility
Key attribute right key value pair so it shows that
Code someone says code so shift left and shift right
So if someone were to be specific right if you only use a click shift left, then we can pick code as a you know
filter
Or else we I mean condition or else we can use sir if you want to allow the user left shift or right shift
We can go with the key
Is that clear guys if some user
Whenever on a model we are listening to the all the events by chance if user is clicking a key called shift
We'll call that create function create ticket. Okay, let's do that same thing
What I'll say that hey if event dot key
By chance even dot keep any time is equal to shift
Let's say shift
Okay, any chance if it is shift then call this function and execute it
right
This is the logic that we wanted to implement isn't it?
Kiran doubt plus one. Okay
What if we want type capital let us using shift
Okay, why why not if you if you want to type it capital letters
Then it's your choice if you want to use some other button
Alt key or any you have a caps lock button, right now, let's say even without clicking a shift. I'm trying to type
capital letters
Right, so it's it's about your choice like nothing specific that you have to use shift submit or kiran
Is that point clear guys you can use any button on your keyboard or else you can add a button event
Button on this overlay, then you can create it. It's you it's up to your design
Now I have typed, you know capital letters without clicking a shift using a caps lock button
Yes, please respond
Is that point clear?
Clear
But usually shift is used for capital and we need to mention it exclusively
So if you use some other keys with a shift even then
Yeah, event will be triggered. That's how it works. Right whenever key down event
And in the key down event happens
There's a shift by chance
Okay on the model
So that event will be triggered because that's what we are saying in this js, right?
Hey add a listener and a key down event by chance if user is clicking shift call that up
Okay, or else or else you say that if you want to use some other event common event
Let's say I click here. I'm clicking something like
Function or let's say options button which is in mac
you see
What I got alt key
So instead of alt we have
option button
In mac, so you can use this too if you want to use cap shift for the capital letters
Is that fine guys?
Yeah
so
Uh, if you can you can make it complicated also, let's say let's say if I if I make it something like
Uh, you know command s let's say which is a save button
If you see I got key
Keys I don't know like how you use combination of keys, but I'll check and let you know
But let's let's use if you want to use something like alt
Let's say I use something like alt here for the use case if people are facing challenge with using shift
Okay, so whatever key is there it's up to you. There's no limitation on that
Let's say I copy this alt
And I paste it here alt whenever user clicking alt create a ticket. Okay
now going back now, let's say I
Open ticket for sake right for the sake since we have cleaned up everything. Let's refresh our
Can ban board I still see that it gets here somehow
Uh
Let's restart this one
No, yeah, we don't have anything left here because we cleared this everything fine
Now if you see, uh, I'm typing some javarish. I'm selecting something and as soon as I click the
This key
Do you see there's a ticket getting created if I click again alt alt alt the n number of tickets will be created
but
I'll come back to that habesh two buttons, but let's focus on this thing
Let's focus on actual implementation. We can come back to that for two buttons or combinations of them
Keyboard events
Okay
Now do you see any problem guys? Do you see any problem?
Firstly here
As soon as I click it
Uh other than content too like
This one do you see by chance that
No duplicates are fine. Let's say I refresh this again
If i'm clicking here place and i'm writing some javarish and writing an alt
Typing it all
Do you see this firstly model is still sticking?
Right, it should disappear now firstly
Okay
So first let's let's fix that problem. How can you fix that problem? It's like just a toggling that again
We don't have to deal with uh, you know flag here because when whenever
You know key down event is happening by default
User is open. Uh user is doing that key down event on a model which is already open isn't it?
Do you guys agree with that point that which is already open, so what if I copy this statement?
And put it here that hey after creating a ticket close the model
Okay
Clear
Now now think of this thing
Let's say I remove this event I don't need anymore
Let's go back to the code
And see this I type some javarish value. Let's say equity and I click alt
The ticket is created
What if I recreate?
Do you see the something here still problem?
What could be the problem here again guys
Previous data is there enough so we have to we make sure once your ticket is created you also clean up this existing data
Isn't it that we should be clear we should be making this earlier code whichever code is there
We should be focusing on cleaning up that model too
Now let's do this. Firstly, let's clean up something called as text area
dot inner text equal to empty string great guys or else we can also use value but
Firstly, let's select this text area. How can we get an access to text area? Let's say I say that const
text area
document dot
Query selector here inside this I'll use a class called let's say I
This is a text area container
Once I select this
I have it
Okay
so firstly
I've got some bits inside. Hey, we can use inner text
So inner text is
Equal to empty. Okay, let's see this
Firstly, I caught create a ticket. I use query. I click alt again. I reopen it
Query is still existing
So
Do you say this? So what if what if let's say
I try to
Text content, okay text content. Okay. Fine
Let's say
I use
Query
Alt
Open still there
Guys this thing is associated with a key called value in the html node
Right this value is always persisted
Because it wasn't suggesting inner text so it
No, no, not that way not that inner text or inner HTML or that way. This is a form value
inside the form value
inside form fields it the
Values of any field is associated with
It the
Values of any field is associated with value called as key called as value itself. So
Like always the the current value is associated with value
Okay. Now, let's say if I say that a value
Let's say I say that make it some bit
Okay, whatever
I click it. I once I click alt again. I reopen
Always I'll be you know, even if I edit it again, I open it always it will be some bit
Do do you understand this like for form fields mostly?
Inside the html it's a key called value which is holding actual value of your form field like input field or any field
Yeah, so we will be doing something like an empty string so which will address our problem
Okay
So, let's say if I click some gibberish and do this and I click again
some gibberish and click again
Okay
So the issues are fixed isn't it all the issues that we want are after clicking and alt or alt functionality
The model is closed that cricket ticket has been created
All these things are being done, isn't it?
now
What would be the next thing what would be the next big thing?
here
What do you see?
Right, what do you see here in the common thing in the two tickets?
Firstly think of it here if you see
We have generated a dummy ticket right not the user entered information
firstly
Right to store the actual data
Right so for this one
Let's tackle things one by one. Okay, let's tackle things one by one
Let's focus on something which can give us a dynamic id
Anyone any idea like how we can get the dynamic id?
Like a random uuid timestamp
Mat dot random mat dot random will generate always between a range of numbers
But there is a you know a repository
Like you you id you have something like
You you id are a bit long, you know in nature
There is something like called a short id instance
So they have this particular person who have built this one right has deployed on cdn
Has deployed on cdn, so it will always generate you
A dynamic id each time you click it will generate and it is also
This is like a deprecated package, but you can use it
Unique this is a unique id generator. Okay, so always it will generate your new unique id whenever you require
So this thing we are going to use it how we will be able to use this one is that if you see here
Here he has gave us like his bundled the whole javascript code and gave us a script tag
The same way we did it for a font awesome this logic whatever this whole repository is there
He packaged into the script tag and gave back to us
Okay, this is a source location where his code is deployed
Okay
This min dot js file. Let's copy this one
Let's copy this one go back to
Your script tag, let's say you put it here
Once you put it here
Then if you go back to the documentation what he suggests below if you see he says that
Just call this function called short id
You will be able to generate
ids
Okay. Now, let's see this if it is actually happening or not. Let's see. Let's try
This is let's say if I copy this content also
I put it here something like window dot
Alert and short id, let's say if i'm doing this, let's say I go back and try to create multiple tickets
And I click alt if you see I got some gibberish id
Okay, again if I click this again I go and try to create some other ticket now
This is a different ticket ID
Instead of
Since you have a uo uo id is also a library which keeps you a unique id
This is also a library which gives you a short id like a small lizard
Is that clear guys like what is the short id? I'll also give you the github repo if you want to explore this one
Yeah, i'm pinning this
Let's refer to this one guys now
Let's go and do one thing since now if you uh, does anyone know dynamic
Way of writing, uh, you know inside js like this string when you use backticks
You can always write a dynamic values inside this
string, right
Yeah variable just a second guys so
Let's say if I use a dollar sign and curly braces
You know same thing. So what I'll do is like I instead I'll call a function here
I'll say that hey generate an id here. They should offer that remove this
Uh
Sorry guys, I was just asking like how can you write a dynamic, uh, you know string or the value inside uh,
You know string or the value inside uh, then inside a string generally dynamic value inside a string
Without no it wouldn't work
It wouldn't work. It's a string itself
I think you're referring to uh, this is something called as a template literal guys
Okay, if I show you
So template literally something where you use uh backticks and you can give any expression that you want
Something right you can write a javascript inside between I mean logic you can write it between this thing like a dollar symbol and opening and closing
Whatever you seen like you just said that between two braces that is that we will see explore and
Uh react, how can you do that? Why we use that logic? Okay
but now
is
Uh, like how we were generating dynamic id is clear to everyone like logic of dynamic id and how we are creating
And one more question someone asked me like are we can we create the script tag?
No, we haven't created the script tag, but we have deployed our code base here
Their code base is deployed here this particular
Min.js file
Okay, we are in order to download this particular thing. Let's say if how i'm downloading this content
So if you see
Whenever this particular html will be downloaded inside the network tab
Okay
If you see here this short id code was downloaded completely
Whatever code was written that was downloaded
So we in in a way if you want to download any resource, uh from the server right on a html file
You're supposed to define if it has a js logic
You're supposed to give it in a script tag and give the source location where it is located whether it is in internal project folder
Or external somewhere deployed in the deployed code so that it will reach out there and will get that code
Is that clear guys?
You know, so this is how
things works now if you see even why we did use fa-solid like if you see all this
things are coming from there particularly and always if you say and why did I
Told you earlier that hey you should log in and use it because if you see all the time my token
My login token was being passed as a request
every time
For font awesome
Whenever I refresh it you see
This is a request url. They are forming i will come to that. We'll explore this whole things later
But coming back to it
So I hope uh short id logic is clear to everyone
Right, we are able to generate dynamic ids
Okay now comes next thing text area part
No, just now we have seen
Just now we have seen that we were able to access
Text value here and we were making it as empty
Can we use somewhere here like a text value and leverage such that instead of lorem epsom something will pass it here
Instead of this lorem something we can pass it down here
We can store and then you can use it, let's say I have a dynamic string here. Let's say I say that
Ticket info, let's say if I say that ticket info that I receive it here
I declare it here saying that to get in now
if I pass
Ticket value here would that would be fine to create this ticket
Would that would be fine to create this ticket
Guys is this logic fine like we are passing inside this function
Text area value and we are receiving it here and trying to output it
Let's say let's try to see if it is working. Let's say
Task one guys I use shift key to enter now task by default
Now if I click alt as soon as possible task one got created now dynamic
Whatever user is entering that is being done. Let's say task
two
And I click again options
Again, let's say task three
Right, so we are able to create all the possible task as of now
Great now what could be the next interesting thing guys? Just think of it when you're creating a ticket
What part of element you're still not able to leverage or what you're not able to do it
If you see in the dynamic part
There is something that you're not able to leverage color, you know
now
if you see
What we just did earlier is that we gave
A default color ticket color
You know, we say that there's a default class called ticket color and we made it particularly as a black in color
Right background color like let's say if you go for the css
Like if you go for the css and find it out wherever the ticket color is there
This thing is being by default black is being passed
right
This is something we have to you know, provide it dynamically
Isn't it
Yes, do you agree with me
First this point is clear now where that black is coming from so i'm just trying to remove this black here
and
We have to figure out
We have to figure out
How we can pass a class or a background color to this one?
How and that too
that too in a way
Such that user is clicking on something user is clicking on
Which all things user is clicking on all these things
All of these four palettes
Isn't it whenever is clicking on this one and we have to identify which color is clicking on then we have to
attach that particular
color here
No, think of it what idea comes to your mind firstly, these are the list of colors. We are having it
Okay. Now on this list of colors, what how would you handle it?
Get the class name set it to the class
Okay, you mean to say that a get the class inside the list of classes get the for class and at
Attach it here. Is that something?
Is
Yes, but how would you get this class how would you define like when user is clicking on which one?
How would you know that where you are which user is clicking add an event to what
Add an event to parent class which parent class have you done?
I think of it guys
Which parent class you would add css priority color container if I add priority color container and if I click on anything
Uh, how would I know that which part of diff I clicked it?
It
Yes, do you see here that I have to add a event listener to all of the diffs all of the color diffs firstly
Because we are we should be listening to all colors if if i'm clicking light pink
I should get light pink flag if i'm clicking black. I should get a black of black
No flag
So
They you might have learned one logic where
Let's say if you want to iterate through all the children elements
How this app works is like, you know this works like an
array of elements
Okay, this is a parent class. Let's say first let's do one thing
Let's do one thing. Let's get an access to this parent container first and we call it as
priority
Color
Okay, all priority colors, let's say we say that all priority colors now inside this
I can use this right
If I if I can use query selector all
Like comments like class name to get all the elements possible
So let's try it that way
Let's say I say that document dot
Query selector all inside this I give it as this priority color
Now this all the priority colors are no array of elements because this are the four items there
Now I'll show you one of the higher order functions that can be leveraged to add at least an event to the each item
And this higher order function we have already discussed and we have explored up to some extent
Okay, that higher order function is
For each because we are doing same activity for each of item
One
Isn't it we are adding an event listener to each of these firstly diffs
Now inside this let's say I get each color element
Inside each color element now, let's say for once I receive each color element, let's say
Color element dot add event listener inside this what type of event i'm listening
What type of event i'm listening
Let's think of it what type of event click now simple straightforward because we are clicking on a box
Once we click this
We have to do something
Now what we have to do is
Let's let's
Think of it now. Let's say think like
hey
Let's say that I define like, you know a global variable
Let's say model
Priority color and let's say give a
Default as a black
Default value no
Whenever user is clicking whatever user is clicking by from that particular class
If I can get it if if user is clicking this can you can I get somewhere somehow like light pink?
Or somewhere somehow I can get light green
Or somehow I can get
Light blue my problem would be solved
I can update model priority color
And I can directly
Call it here
Also with a ticket container, let's say I would say
Model
Model priority container
Model priority color by default is black. I have to just update it
When user is clicking on this color, are you able to follow up guys? What i'm trying to talk about now? Am I going speed?
No, right
So now how would he get it? Like let's say we added event listener to all of them now inside
You have multiple classes how we can get a first class because if you see here we have
List of classes this way. How can we get the first class?
And update this particular value of model priority color now. I have to get this value
And of this this model priority color, how can I do that?
First
Firstly we will have event here get attribute works get attribute works
But what let's say
Let's say let's say
const class list
Classes
Like event
Dot
Okay, firstly, this is not an element so we won't be getting a set attribute get attribute, pardon me
It's an event. Okay for the event level. Let's see this. Okay
uh
Kiran says a class list of first element array. Let's see if you are able to catch up guys console dot log
of
Event
Let's see this first again now as soon as I am here
Let's say if you see it
If you see if i'm clicking on pink
You know, there's a click event happened
And do you see here something that we can leverage?
Okay
Okay, just a second
Let's say I put a debugger here
And I click here now if you see
on the event if I do something like
Event dot class list
Not getting anything surprising
Sorry
Event dot target. Yeah dot class list
Okay, I will start getting it now guys. Are you are you able to see this?
What I was trying to say is that you know, i'm getting uh for the particular target element
Get with the list of classes
Inside this list of classes i'm getting an array of all the classes that are attached
Inside that if I pick if I pick event dot target dot
Right this class uh class list of first element my problem would be solved, right?
Do you guys agree with that point?
everyone
Let's do that same thing
Let's do that same thing. Let's go back here
Uh here in the model i'll do something like event
Something like event dot target dot
Class list of zero element now removing this console log and save it
Let's remove this debugger
Okay
Now let's verify if uh functionality of adding is working fine now i'm entering some gibberish
I'm selecting green in color. I am selecting alt button
Now I have got a green color. Now. Let's say I select again gibberish
I select pink color. I click alt button
So i'm getting pink color
Guys, but do you see one fault here?
Why i'm selecting color? I don't know which color i'm selecting. Isn't it? We don't know which color is selected
I mean, we're not highlighting that one
Like if you go for plus
You are highlighting that here you are clicking plus if you are going for cross. This is something we left yesterday and we thought like
Uh, we'll do this using dynamic js, isn't it?
So now now comes one thing
Is that let's say what if?
what if I
Add some background color
No, the thing is simple like let's go
And let's say that hey, I have a css
Let's say that go to css
And give me let's say I say that this is the css will apply
Uh, I can say ticket or let's say active
active status color
So this is the css class will apply inside this i'll apply just only border I say five pixels solid
uh
Light
Light
Let's say light slate gray and we'll see how this works firstly, okay
Here I picked it up this one
now going back to script
now
On this color element i'm supposed to add that particular css, right?
Whichever button is clicked
Uh, firstly my question is clear like where how we will add, you know this background color dynamically
From the js
If you see for the if you see on the plus when on hover we are adding it or by default
We are having something here. We have to give some background color
Uh, sorry border
On click of this one like if i'm clicking pink I should get a border if I clicking this one green
I should get this border
For clicking blue that question is clear from the functionality point of view what i'm trying to stress one
Now now think of it
Now think of it like how and when we should add
Like if you just now we have seen that on a target element
We have list of css classes available inside that list of classes if we are successfully able to add another css class
And that css class would be this one then our problem would be solved
Isn't it from that logic point?
How many of you got this point in this like just adding these css classes into that class list
Okay now
I see
One thumbs down
So guys what i'm saying is that if you see in the e for the each element right for the color element
We are adding listeners and in the in the listener itself to get what type of color is this one
We are getting from the list of already existing classes
Inside this class list itself for the target element whichever user is clicking
If we can add an extra css class into it
Into this current element and that extra css class would be this one
So that our problem will be solved
Class will classless will be changed, right?
Yeah, when we are adding it in array elements when I push an extra thing where it would be added
When I do an add class list dot add it is added at the end
It the it will have added at the end
Let's let's see this let's see this dynamically once what i'll do is that
Uh, i'm writing a simple statement guys if you don't understand it, it's completely fine. I'll try to re-explain this step by step
Uh, not to be in hurry
Okay
Let's say
Simply
I would say that once you access to zero l tail bit in order to reduce your confusion more
uh
Uh like some bit after accessing class list zero itself i'm adding it
Okay
Is this clear did anyone understand what did I do here
Okay
If you don't understand give me a thumbs down guys, it's completely fine
If you don't understand this point
I receive uh two people cool
three great
Okay, four people
Yeah guys, I just just want you know to vote it in so that I understand that how many people are able to follow up
And how many are not i'll show that in chrome guys
Okay, if you see
If you see what's happening here?
firstly
Let's open the html elements itself, okay, let's open this
Now
Just see this
Light blue priority color two things are there. Okay, and i'll also put the debuggers
Where i'll put the debuggers i'll put the debuggers here
Okay
In the element as soon as I click on blue
If you see in the blue when I go for the event target class list i'm having two things
Light color light blue and priority blue
Light blue and priority color this thing is clear to everyone. How am I able to access?
now
Inside this itself. I'm adding an extra css class called active status color
Now you would be able to see this like let's say once I once I click play, right now
Still if you go and see here the class is not applied here. But once again if I click play
Now if you see active status color is been added into this one and you see this border
That is added
Hey, this is the active color that is added
How many of you are able to understand this point now
Did all those those seven who gave me thumbs down got this point what I was trying to achieve here
Just adding an extra css color dynamically. I'm giving and border instead of attaching it to the div
Because this process will help will be helpful
When you are actually building div or any elements dynamically from using jasker
Is it clear right? Yes. No, anyone having if anyone is still having any doubt give me thumbs down
For one final check others and move it
Great so I hope everyone got cleared like what we just did now. No
Just to know which color we are selecting, right? Yes. Yes. Yes
Yes, we whenever user is selected entering data every year. We were
Not knowing like which color user is selecting. So for that point
Okay, okay, so some it says that
Okay, fine coming back i'm coming to that point itself
Okay, border will be there now the the two problems. Okay, there are two problems
Now let's say if I select this one also
Border is applied to this element
Now if I apply click on this one also border is color is applied if I click this one also border is applied
This is again creating a problem, right?
As you stated some with the party
So even for the next time even when you click the other box also it is creating a problem border is being added to all
now now
Think of it like how can you fix this?
We still need a border to give a better user experience that which button which color user is selecting
But think of it like how can you?
Manage it manage it dynamically
I
Think of it. How can you like the question you raised you have written four or five lines
How can you think like we have to restrict it to one only?
Okay radio button
Okay radio button, huh
It's a really basic thing guys. Just think of it like if you see the code, right?
I think it should click it to you guys
first and foremost
Think of it
Restricting is not possible. What if user selected one and then he want to update that color?
status
While while creating a ticket itself something
like
Model container update
Now
Think of it this way if we can do something like cleanup activity before
before
User is we are adding a classless zero to point a particular or adding a new color. Can we?
Clean up existing selected box and then we update it
So
I I think no one understood this point, but yeah
Like let's see how many of you understood. Let me write down some one simple logic guys
What i'll do since all priority colors are this one, right?
Or this list of css classes, you know inside once anyone a user is clicking any one chill element
I'm coming inside this function and executing this logic. So i'll say that i'll go through again
all the existing colors
Okay
and
on each color
For each let's say color element
I'll remove
This existing css. How would I remove current element?
Let's say color element current element
current element
Dot class list dot remove
Which class will remove will remove this particular class like add and remove two functions are given to our class list
Now did anyone understand
This code what have written it's okay
If you didn't understand you can give me a thumbs down what i'm trying to do. I'm just saying that i'll clean up
Clean up the existing selection
Selected option each time user is clicking a new color
Or even if you're reopening the model I see one thumbs down
Cool, so i'll explain you this this thing in debugging
So let's say if I go here firstly i'll show the functionality by default no box is selected if I select one
Cool works if I select second thing only one box is selected even if I select third one only one box is selected
Even if I close and reopen
It this particular thing is selected
Okay, there's a one thing we have to address it still
Okay
Firstly this this
Okay, we can remove it on alt okay, we can call it a clean up activity on alt also let's let's do this thing
so one thing i'll do is that let's say I
Extract this one in a constant
I say clean up
Clean up color selection
And I pull this out
I paste it here. I call this function firstly
Okay, each time a cleanup happens then once a user is selecting also I can clean up
Right
So what did I do is that I extracted this function. I put it on the top. I've called twice
Now let's let's retest and i'll come back guys. I'll explain all all of these things
Whatever we just did it
Now I got two errors. Now, let's see this what errors i'm getting
Error is not a function. Uh, just turn it guys
Okay
Wrong syntax
So
No, i'm i'm able to update this one let's say I select pink and I close it and reopen
Pink is still selected
Okay, I on click of plus also i'm even I should be able to
Alt start click on click of plus also I should be able to call that cleaner, isn't it?
So
Uh here so let's do this one thing. Let's pull this reusable logic onto the top
Okay, and whenever user is playing around with this one, let's call this one
Okay
Or else only
Why we want to do it twice only
when you are able to render the
When you are rendering the model clean it up and then render it
Okay
Let's say I select this this is fine again if I close it I reopen this is working fine
Is this clear guys like how i'm able to play around with this one anyone having any challenge to let me know
Like because ticket creation is something yeah, I mean I will take this post this tick once ticket creation
I'll try to explain this but
Give me a thumbs down guys. If anyone faced any challenge I went too slow because I know
It's difficult to get those ideas and build it now. I did just most of the things that we did it is like through discussion
Anyone facing any challenge give me a thumbs down any challenge like you if you didn't understand anything do let me know
and
One thing i'll do is like i'll push the code
Before the break so that anyone having any challenge go through it come back after the break. Let me know if you
Uh, if there is any point of thing that you didn't understand
Okay
Create ticket creation
So
I don't see any thumbs down. So
I've pushed the code guys. I think you have the github repo too. Do you want me to reshare it? I'll reshare it
uh
So that if anyone is interested they can revisit uh in the break
So guys, uh now after this, uh, you know
Uh, firstly, uh final thumbs up all clear till now html css js part whatever we have discussed
right
so second thing now
We will be heading towards break but as as you've seen that what we have thought of correct
You know taking it up really good first. We created a ticket
Uh with uh, you know like dummy data
Directly writing HTML then we made it dynamic using user
Information now next thing we'll work on something. It's like delete functionality adding an event listener to this one on a click of mode again
Each ticket we should be able to delete the ticket. Okay, that's a simple thing, but we'll do it post-break
uh now if you are
Depending on your comment guys, give me your inputs like how many minutes of break you needed
Five minutes if it works fine
Five works cool. I've seen people
Giving five minutes
Okay, great guys five minutes
Let's take five minutes guys, i'll see you back in five minutes
Starting the timeline if anyone want to go through it code. I've shared it. Okay, please go through it
You
You
You
You
You
You
You
You
You
You
Uh, nice is everyone back
Uh, I see three four good good good guys
so
Any doubts guys? I'm just want to recheck with you if anyone's still facing any challenge understanding the logics that we have written do let me know
Uh, I can repeat it has been a time she wanted
Just let me know if you
You need any explanation on things that what we have done till now
If everything is clear
Uh, let's move ahead. Let's move ahead and build the next part of logic
now
we
Have addressed all the things around one button called as add button
right
We in the event flow or the user experience flow that we have directed user is clicking add
User is entering content in the text area selecting a color
Clicking an alt button ticket is created
All this is fine. One sort of button flow is completed now comes the second button flow
so
Firstly we have discussed that this button will be used to know that
Uh, like once we click on this button
And then later on whenever you click on any other ticket
That particular ticket will be cancelled
So this is a like permission button like since you have seen
We don't have a delete button specifically
We have two things on a model event
listener
We have key down
Like whenever user is clicking key down then we are but we haven't added something like click event
If user is clicking anything, we should delete it and we should be only able to delete it
When user has already clicked this remove button
This part of feature flow is clear right to everyone how this delete of ticket will be working
If anyone don't remember it do let me know I can uh restart the existing project that I have a separate copy I can
Yeah, I'll just give me a second guys
I have my
I have to reopen my older batch code to re-explain and show this
Just a second
So now something that we want to implement is this one
Let's say
If you see this, uh, we have completed the workflow of this button
We created this on click of this button. We are able to open the model. We are able to select the color
We are able to move ahead right and create a ticket
Now comes the second thing is that on click of this button cross button
If you see the functionality
I have to say that delete button has been activated and once you click okay, you see that it is highlighted in red in color
And once it is highlighted in red in color as soon as I click on any ticket that particular ticket will be canceled
So this is what we have to build
Let's say
Re-repeating uh trying to repeat again guys. We have completed plus icon flow. We have to work on this cross icon
Once a user clicks his cross icon only then user will be able to delete this task whenever he clicks on a new task
Now once we are enabling this button, uh, you know
We'll have alert saying that delete button has been activated and once user clicks, okay
It's it will be highlighted in red and then you click on any ticket
Ticket will be deleted
I hope this flow is clear to everyone like what we are going to do next
Next
Clear guys now it's it's pretty straightforward, uh, because you have been able to answer everything
Uh that what we have done till now
So I would want first step like what would be the first step like where would you add an event listener?
Consider this cross button
Okay, consider this cross button
and
Uh, let me know like enabling how would you do that enable activity?
I need at least one two people comment or writing comments so that
Because this is a small thing it I can end it up in 10 minutes
I can set it up to 25 minutes, but it's it's your solution like when you are able to communicate it would be really good
First step
What would be the first step like how would you do it
You need an access to this button isn't it first step
To listen to this button firstly, hey whether we are able to add, you know activate this button
Okay
Guys, uh, I'm audible right
So let's let's do this thing. Let's get an access to this button first. Okay, let's say that we call it as a remove button
Document dot query selector
Remove button cool
Once we have this remove button
What i'll do is that i'll add an remove button dot add event listener
And i'm listening to the click listener inside this click listener
What we are doing
Okay, you didn't get this samit
Uh, so i was just trying to explain this one
So our functionality what we want to achieve
Is that uh, we have completed ticket creation, right firstly
Now we are working on ticket deletion part
Like once we click a cross button it that particular we saying that hey we now now from now you can
Delete that thing
Okay, if you don't have this button deactivated you cannot click on a ticket and delete it
So if you want to delete this ticket you have to click a cross button once you are
You know delete button has been activated
You go on to any ticket and try to click on any ticket. The ticket will be deleted
I hope the requirement is clear guys to all of you like I repeated it thrice now
So
So what I was doing is that I firstly I got an access to this remove button, okay
If you see the code here, uh
What I did it is that this line I got an access to this delete button
Then I added this event listener to the remove button
Now inside this remove button the first thing what we are doing is that we are adding an alert right window alert
now let's
Screen is little blur
Hey, uh, I think I've been if you have an internet issue
Okay, great. So
Once I have this one what I'm supposed to do is that I'll add an window alert
Window dot alert
I'll say that delete button
Uh has been activated
Okay, once I keep this I'm
I need
I need
some event
Like first thing let's say I go into a project once I click this I'm able to get this once I click. Okay
Okay, this is not a project that's the whole thing if I click this I'm getting this uh statement windowed on it
That's fine. But as soon as I click, okay, this thing is not being converted into red, right?
Do you see this that showing that this button is activated?
Any idea like how can we make this one color red?
How can we make this color red?
A simple direct css
Uh said attribute works fine
But that can be used to add you know
Multiple attributes new attributes, but there is a class attribute already existing
You can make a manipulation to that or else you can add a inline styles, right?
Inline styles kiren, do you remember that?
Let's say if I do this if I do this, let's say remove on this remove button
Remove button dot style. I'm getting a style tag. I say that hey, whatever color is there
Make it red
Right
So let's go back
Let's go back and see in our project once I click this
Once I click this
Once I click this I click. Okay color is in red
but
Again, are you able to make it white in color?
Are you able to return back into white color?
How we disable this button now we enable delete button, that's fine. How do we disable it now? That's a tricky thing
So this is same way
as we toggled
This model isn't it?
On and off on and off, isn't it?
This is on and off
We should be able to do that same thing, right?
Is anyone able to relate it like
Click model same thing
Consider this is a model itself. Once a model is activated you make it red once you click again make that off
simple thing
So for that one if you remember we had add task flag in the same way i'll create another flag called
Let's say if we move task flag false and i'll use this thing if only
If only true
Only then do this logic
And
Make it white
Right once we make it white then in order to toggle this remote task i'm just doing that same statement
Right
This is point here guys like what I just did here any doubts on this logic?
Nothing, right?
Let's see this if this is working as expected I click on a toggle
It's a red in color if I click back it's white in color
Click back red in color white in color same as this model
Line number 18, okay
so
Abhinav did you attend how we toggle this model window?
Okay
Okay, last class you missed it so what I was trying to do it here is that I initialized a variable
Global variable in this file as like remove taskbar false like we are not enabling that
So once you you click a button this line of code will be executed
We are converting false into true and once it is true, then we are applying this
Okay next time when you again click the button this flag is already updated as true now when it comes inside
We are converting true into false again, and then we are executing this color white in color
Yeah, we can do that disable
Right got it
So button has been activated button has been the same deactivated
Yes, is this point clear to everyone what how we are able to toggle this one and you know
Add a listener to this one now now comes
Tricky part. Let's say I create a few list of tasks
Let's say task one and I give other pink task and I click alt
Okay
Then I create another task. Let's say task two
Then I another select pink. I let's say pink is the default
Start point. Let's say
task three
uh green in color
alt
Okay, we have three tasks now even after
Activating it that the magic is not yet happening it now comes the main interesting logic
How would you add a listener to each of the ticket?
That is being created that has been created has been created window dot target dot remove
Now which thing you would remove and how would you know where listener
Is there if I click randomly would you remove that kiran?
Think of it first like on creation task
Right is every anyone able to think from the abhinav's perspective
Yeah on only right so some with your point is right also
That only when remove task flag is true only then we will be deleting the tickets that's cool
But how would we know is that which ticket to delete it?
Is was my point so abhinav has given us some hint that hey you have to add listeners
When we are creating a ticket, so he's saying that somewhere here
If we can add as listener
and
When you add a listener on each ticket and then if whenever this
Button like whenever remove task flag is true
And if that particular listener code is executed we can delete the code
I've told a lot of things
I don't think anyone understood this point, isn't it?
As I got it great
Very good. So
Okay, I got it
Right. Great. So
Really repeating is did does anyone able to like anyone facing challenge to understand like how we would be able to delete a ticket?
Yeah, we will we still need to listen
To each of the tickets, right?
Whenever we are clicking anywhere in the ticket
We have to listen to this ticket that hey i'm clicking on this and and only
When i'm clicking on this I have to check that hey if this delete button is activated only then
I'll validate this click and i'll delete it
I'm just validating this button check this flag that we have created
I'll use this as a validation like if this is only true
Then then id maybe somehow
Not exactly think of it like
We can cross check based on short id
So firstly, let's let's go back to this point firstly
Someone suggested me to add an event listener. Now if you see once we appended a child
This ticket container whatever containers we have multiple containers that are we are appending inside main container
Let's say inside this main container
Let's explain
All the tickets this particular tickets we should have listener attached right?
Firstly, that is what you told me now. Let's say if I attach a listener to this one ticket container
Add event listener
Right once anyone is clicking this ticket once anyone is clicking this ticket
Once if anyone is clicking this ticket
I'll say
I'll just say that if if a remove task flag is equal equal to true
Then delete that ticket, right?
How can I delete that ticket too
So
Can I do this logic guys
Did anyone understand what I have just done it here
I'm just saying that hey while creating a ticket
On each ticket or whatever this div is in a parent level div for the ticket
I've added a listener. I'm listening to each and every ticket that is being created
and after creating it
If a flag is true by chance anytime that delete button is activated and someone is clicking this ticket this part of
Condition will be executed and ticket will be removed
But how it will justify which one is which one I got selected now
How it will justify is that because whenever i'm creating it
For each ticket a separate listener is created right i'm not creating like one listener to all of them
Inside create ticket function itself. I'm adding a logic if i'm adding outside that like ticket create ticket
I'm supposed to know that which ticket user is clicking and how it is being done
Now i'll show this how this works, okay, give me a second let's let's create some tickets first, okay
task one
Let's say I have this and I click alt. Okay now
First let's see this
I'll go into the source tag
Now
Let's come on to this one
Now for all the tickets
Listener is added right all let's say I create another task to
Say this is our task two
And I click this one if you see task two also listener was added
Now if I click on any ticket if I click on any ticket
This listener click is being executed and if I see this remove task, it's false. So it won't remove the ticket as of now
Even if I click this part, this is being executed for this own ticket not for the like common generic logic
So if we need not to identify
Which ticket we are specifically deleting that will be automatically handled because you are adding a listener to each and every ticket
When when it is creating itself
Dom will take care of it
Is this clear guys
Did anyone understand this one like
so
I'll show you the implementation part. Once again, let's say firstly
I'll show that whether this feature is working then again i'll repeat it. Okay, let's say that I click on a delete
Okay, i'll come back to that point kiran let's say firstly
Let's verify this one is working then i'll come back and see your uh, you know question
Like i'm clicking delete button is activated once i'm activated. I click on task one
No
Once I do this, let's say it is true. Then i'm coming back here
Inside this ticket container now if you see this ticket container
Let's say I print the ticket container here
Okay
This is having some this id
I click it play
And the task one is removed now. Let's say I click on task two
Okay, I try to print again ticket container
Now if you see each time i'm getting a different ticket if you see ids are different and everything is different
dynamically it is handled
I click it again
Play now. So if you see I have need not to pass anything information like id or anything
no
No
So why we are adding too many listeners better?
We add it to the parent and filter event and delete will that work now?
so
What kiran is suggesting is that
Now when I say parent when you say parent kiran, are you talking about this main ticket container?
Just want to understand your question
Right now on click of let's say if I add a listener to it, I have a main ticket container
Inside that now, how would I identify?
How would I identify?
Each time a ticket is clicked until unless there is no event listener attached to that ticket
Bubbling of event
That concept can be used
Just let me think of think of it. Okay. Let's just let's
Just think of it
Okay, let's say if I have here main ticket container dot add event listener and I have click event, okay
And let's say I also have event here coming up
And console dot log of event so firstly i'll implement your idea
Kiran like we'll figure it out in a break. I mean in doubt session, but let's just understand this logic
Then i'll come back to your thing
Okay
Okay, we'll just understand the existing implementation then we'll come back and we'll explore like there may if it is a better way to do it
Okay now so one thing is one thing i'll i'll try to you know, clean this mess bit
Okay, i'll say that hey
I'll try to write a handle remove logic
Such that
And i'll say that this part of idea
I'll put it here. I'll say that ticket
So i'm giving this whole ticket to it
Let's say once you are done it
I'll say handle remove
I'll say handle remove inside the spot past the whole ticket
No
Guys before implementing a bubble event bubbling logic or even bubbling idea
Firstly, I just want to know did all of you understood what my idea of implementation was?
Yes
Right I i'm just doing that I thought like hey I want to create you know add
listener on each of the ticket like if you want to
Like how the click listener works?
Only when user clicks on a particular thing button or anything div or anything only when you add listener to it
You will be able to listen. That is what our general basic idea is
So I have to figure it out where we can add so we thought like we can add it only in the create ticket part
So what I did is like we are adding a listener to it and whenever user is, you know
Clicking that particular ticket we are checking that whether delete button is enabled only if delete button is enabled. We are removing that ticket
Anyone facing challenge understanding this logic
Like
Is this point clear firstly like to all of you
Or if not, give me a thumbs down. I am pretty cool like to re-explain this one. Firstly, this approach should be clear
Then we'll explore other one
Give me thumbs down guys. I need few more to re-explain
Meanwhile, I'll have water
Cool I have
Three people four people cool now
This
Now just think of it this way
If I want to act anything on any click of anything do I need a listener?
Yes, right I need a listener let's say okay now I am creating a ticket one
On ticket one on click of ticket if I want to delete do I need a listener attached to ticket one?
Right now so
What I just said that if I want a listener to be attached to this ticket one such that it can be
On on click we can listen to this I told I what I just said is I'll attach
To that ticket whichever ticket is being generated in this function itself create ticket function itself. I'll add a listener to it
Because I won't be able to have an access to all the list of tickets that are created because those are not
Statically created that I'll pick it one by one and then attach listeners to it
Okay, so I
Did you understand this part of it? Why how I attach listener to each of ticket now?
So
Two thumbs up is I receive four thumbs down. So I just expect all of them, you know if if it is clear to them
Okay
cool, so
What we did it is that we know that for any button click or most of the events or pressing alt will add event listener to it
Right, right. That's that's what idea is
Once up once we are clicking an alt
We are executing this function
It is creating ticket once the ticket is appended in the child like main ticket container
We also are handling, you know, we are adding a listener to that. I ticket which is created dynamically
So that all the tickets which are created here will have a someone listener listening it
This is clear
Okay, just a second
Some part of code didn't execute rightly because this model didn't close
I
Able to create I got 10 issues
As I passed ticket here instead of ticket container I have to pass ticket container
Now the ring trying to refresh so guys i'm trying to repeat repeat again
For each and every click each and every click or each and every mouse event or keyboard event
We if you want to react on that we need a listener to be attached to that everything
So if if I want to attach a listener to the each of the tickets the only way I can do as of now
My idea is while creating ticket itself because once a ticket is created
It would be really difficult to select individually uniquely ticket
Because we don't know like how we'd be able to listen to them
right
So while creating ticket once user is clicking alt let's say i'll show you how that happens even the flow
Let's say here. I now once I click a alt if you see i'm appending this particular ticket here
Okay
Once appended i'm also adding a listener to it
Once listener is attached
Okay
Nothing is executed yet
But if I click that ticket again
Since listener is attached this particular code will be we executed a callback function inside this event listener
Is this clear guys at least the idea is clear now how I am doing this way
If still there is anyone who don't understand this one, let me know
Okay
Clear
Anyone
Okay, great
So
Uh, that is it guys. Actually we don't have anything else to uh, you know
Experiment on i'll experiment on event bubbling
So if these points are clear i'll push the code for today's class
Uh, and i'll end the session today because I know that this is a bit overwhelming
to
Understand and do play around with that dom
Did you did anyone guys felt overwhelming a small functionality?
You know playing around with that dom was bit tricky
You know
So I that's the reason why?
Kept it as much as interactive as possible
We'll
Uh, we'll cover it up in next class promote user usage of log button
We'll pick it up in next class
If I talk about log button, uh
Again, you guys will go a bit crazy and hit me up. You will find my house address and hit me up now
Remove button logic
Yeah, uh got it some bit
No worries. I'll try to make it as simple as possible because since we are going in a beginner batch, right?
Just remember this thing what what
The basic idea was
even the logics the way we have written right we didn't want to make it complicated we
Made it so simple that
the basic idea is
If you are clicking anything if if you want to react on mouse events or you want to do any action on anything
With your button clicks or anything. There should be someone listening to those events that your user is doing
Keep that pointing clear if you want to
Listen to that user events right on click of something and anything
For that one, we have to add listeners
For adding those listeners, we had to figure out how we can add it
So whenever there is a dynamic generation of html
It is always great to add a listener only when you are trying to generate dynamically at the next step itself
Because after it's generated dynamically that function will be create function will be called again and again
Then you will if you don't do it here, you don't have other way around
to add listener to each of ticket
Other than something what kiren suggested that there is an event bubbling concept that we can leverage
Is that point clear guys
I'm trying to just make it as easy as possible for you to understand
So
Uh, I pushed a code
now
What I'll do is that I'll play around with this one in doubt session guys if anyone want to stick around
so initially
Uh, there are some doubts some people have mentioned like is anyone having any doubt firstly? I'll answer them then I'll play around with things
Starting doubt session guys feel free to drop
Okay
Anyone having any doubts do let me know
Now
Trying to understand text area in the create part, okay
From what coming back to your uh, you know thing
This
firstly
I need ticket info ticket information, right?
If you see here
Ticket information whatever user is entering
Something again user is entering something user is acting on something. I need a listener attached to that one
So what did I do?
I selected first text area
I I got text area document selected text area then
What did I do here is that inside the text area
For the value property in the form fields will always have the value whatever user is entering
Behind the scene behind the scene if you see, uh
Okay, this is a native one, uh, you won't be able to see this but
What's happening is that behind the scenes there is also a listener attached to it
But the the browser is taking care for us like as soon as user is typing it down
You know this value whatever user is entering typing it down being filled inside this value value property for the text area
Once I get that value i'm passing down the ticket to dynamically, you know get that info
And after getting that info i'm closing that model clearing the clearing of that value
So
Is that clear ramon did you understand that part?
Uh, can I unmute you I didn't understand your question completely so I just can you elaborate it so that I can
Think of it
Where your way of facing challenge?
Uh
Are you typing it down
If you're typing it down
No, no, no promo. I'm asking promote
So promote didn't understand text area part. So i'm just checking with him
Please go to next out
Okay
Cool I'll ask him last. Okay. Great. If you want me to unmute I'll unmute you know
So some which says that uh, I'll pick it up next uh, fetch feather name tpi token let url const response
pass temperature
Okay, everything got
Hey, I didn't understand you pasted code something what what i'm supposed to do with this
Okay, I'll unmute you give me a second
So
Someday yeah, and we'll try to submit please go ahead
Uh, can you try to speak yeah, I'm audible. Yes
Yes
Yeah, so here right the doubters like if I remove the next five lines after
pass json
And then try to
Catch the error, right? It doesn't work. It doesn't give me the alert
But if I add those filings like if I do
Then it works
Let me copy this logic because I might not be able to understand your point exactly. Give me a second
I'm copying it
Let's say I paste it here itself
Okay, uh, which part you are trying to mention?
Just let me know which one pass json, right you can see some uh
Yeah, this one, okay currently const pass json await response dot json, yeah
Repeat your question again. I'll try to understand there is a try
There is a try catch here, I guess it has not been copied the catch one
Okay, uh, give me a second
Hey, I copied everything that you gave me
Me
If you see that code
The ending part was like set location in a text equal to current location
This is what it is
Yeah, do paste it
Okay, uh, let me copy this
Yeah, paste it
Uh, hey, uh, i'm not sure
This is let me try to close this
Yeah, so like i'll try to explain the question, uh, what's happening is in this function, right? Um
If I don't do any updation and only try to you know, get the response and console log it
And then try to
In this case, right when there is only console log dot json in this case the catch error doesn't work if I
Like give an
Invalid location or like empty string and search it in this case the alert doesn't work
But if I try to give these updates, right if I ask it to do these update things
Then this alert thing works else. It doesn't work. Why is it like that? Like
So you mean to say that you are adding a console log here
Uh console then you are
So when you're giving this thing, uh, you also you're saying that this is not going inside the catch block
Uh, I correct and if I remove all all those lines in the try after console log
Okay
Cool. So
Do you get anything? Uh, you know console here
Error
Yeah, I get a console like I even get the error in catch but only the alert doesn't work
Okay, window alert is like I get the error
Yeah, I get the error as well like parameter q is missing or something, but the alert doesn't work in this case
Okay, just let me think of it
Uh
So firstly
This thing will return you the error
Now catch block when this class block will be executed first. What's your understanding? Let me know that
When this catch block will be executed firstly
When there is no json file when there is no response from the api
No
So there are two cases, right?
Okay
So firstly see
Catch block will be only executed when there is a mistake here in this logic, you know
Okay, okay, it doesn't mean that whether your api gives success fail doesn't matter you are console logging here itself, you know
Okay. Okay. So the console log error was
From the try itself. Yeah, it was not coming from here. You can do something like
Inside the console log you have other things also you can use table and try to verify it like or else like
Let's say you can do console dot error here itself
Uh, you can check like add an extra parameter. Let's say from try
Uh
And do this way yeah, so verify that one, okay
Okay
So, yeah, can I go to next question some bit
Yeah, yeah you can yeah sure muting you thank you. Thank you. Yeah
So going back to next question guys, uh, sorry for stretching it down
Kabir says why script is not loading working while adding it in the head. It gives me I cannot read properties of null
Kabir, can you give me that code base or can you share the screen? Possibly I can talk on it
If possible you are there in class. Yeah, you're there
Uh, because I just want to know why because I haven't faced those scenarios. I just want to see how did you
Where did you mess it up?
Okay
And one thing uh
Like like just a second to answer your doubt, right? I got your question. Well, why did you might have made it mistake?
Okay, so first thing
Let's say
Let's say I'll try to replicate your problem. Okay
If you see our script.js file
Whatever script.js file is added to the line number 49
right
If I cut this and I put it in head
Let's say I put it in head itself
Okay, and I go to browser
Now even if i'm clicking plus minus or anything it won't work, right?
It says that cannot read property of null adding event listener. So one thing
What happened is the script file right js file is loaded before body is executed
Okay, the script is executed before body is executed now the inside this body only we have this html until unless html is loaded
Script shouldn't be parsed
Because script will have the references objects from those nodes
So it is always suggested when you're whatever script tags that you are using
And playing around with that body tags, right?
You have to keep it in the bottom such that first your html content is loaded
Then you will be able to access all the elements that you are accessing using document dot query selector
Because the document itself is not loaded before body tag
Once body tag is executed then document API will be able to access all the query selectors and all those things
Is that point clear
Try it around that that's
yeah
Yeah, like if you see there are some codes that I use it before
Because those are only pure js codes
There you can you can use it even you can pull this one
Uh that you can put it here on the top no usage
only
Where the script files where you are trying to access the elements this way?
You are trying to access these elements
Now whenever this script tag is executed line number eight or nine or ten
This body is not executed and these elements are not available by default on top right
So you have to make a choice of it like where to load that script
First code should be available only then load it
Yeah, great
so
Uh, I hope your doubt is resolved or do we have kiren in class kiren you are there no
Let's let's try this thing. Uh your idea
Yeah, good night kabir
So let's let's try that your idea like you were talking about adding a listener to the main event container
Let's say main ticket container
Uh, I don't have anything. So let's say I do main ticket
container
Let's say I win ticket container dot
Add event listener and i'll say click event
Okay
So, uh, let's say i'm having an event
And i'm sorry, just let's let's console log, uh event whatever event we are getting, okay
and
so
uh
Cleaning up
Okay, let's let's let me do one thing. Let me create multiple task task one
pink color
alt key
Task two pink color and alt key
Okay, now I have two things now let's say I remove the existing debuggers, uh dom break points
Script break points remove all break points. I'll go and add it here like let's say this is the main container to reconfirm
Main container is someone
Is based on main ticket container main ticket container is a parent element of
All the tickets in it. Now, let's say if I click on
Any of the ticket
right
If I click on this ticket i'm getting an event here
As you say that bubbling is happening
I don't deny that
But now even if I do this event pointer, let's say event dot, uh target
Okay
Dot let's say event dot target if you print it out i'm getting that whole ticket also
Okay now say next thing, okay, we can do this also like
Okay
Once I have this uh event dot target
Not remove yeah, we can do this thing also
If I can comment this logic I can comment this logic
Okay
Uh, now let me refresh all the things will be erased
Because we are not storing the task
task one
and pink color
Let's say if I click this it's working fine
So kind of this is this logic is working fine, but uh, have we covered event bubbling already? Uh
Is our topic covered
Muneshwar says no
Uh, just guys let me let me check that if that is covered in the last classes
Yeah, I don't have the classes least I have to recheck shashwar did that
Okay, great
I go back I check this
Okay
Okay, this is my class
Okay, if event bubbling and even you know, uh that concept is covered
Like this is also a way we can handle it
instead of attaching
To you know every listener as you said it multiple ways
Okay, I'll I what I'll do is that you know, I'll keep both of these things. Let's say I comment this thing
Uh, I say that i'll keep it only the parent one that logic you suggested
Good thought kudos to you kiran
like if
You want to
add listener
And
Uh, each ticket and remove it
Using the concept of event bubbling
Event dot target will have
Child ticket
Okay
So this is also working as we can use either of the ways
So I was trying to go to each ticket level also. We need to make sure that we filter only the tickets, right?
Uh, let's say if I if I
If I have multiple tickets if I have multiple tickets task two
And I say that task three
And when I click it task three only task three will be deleted
Because in the event dot target in the target value we are exactly getting only the
Clicked particular child ticket
Also, we need to make sure we filter only the tickets, right? Uh cause not any child should get
I'm talking about if there are any other child are shaded tickets other than the thing
Uh, uh, just a minute. I just want to understand it. May I unmute you if it was possible
Uh, yeah
They also will be listening, okay, uh, I mean i'm getting confused and unmuted
Yeah, please go ahead kiran
Um, yes, am I audible? Yeah, yeah, I can hear you
So I was talking about if we uh, will be we're listening to all the childs
that
If there is any other child other than tickets that will also get deleted if the
Without event is added to the parent, right?
Yeah, yeah agree. So, uh here this condition should be a firstly this condition should be verified
Okay, first first and foremost thing and then second thing is like that
Ticket we are specifically adding those tickets into inside the ticket container, right?
So it is expected that there wouldn't be any other childs other than these tickets
If there are we need to have to handle those kind of use cases edge cases
So how can we do that? Actually that was my question
Okay, how can you do that? So you can see like uh, like let's say, uh, you can once
Once you get the event or target, right?
Once once you have that element you can verify the parent level div class css class
If this is a particular extra condition one is one more extra if condition
Let's say you store that
Let's say ticket
Okay ticket inside this event or target
Target
Okay
Once you have this event or target, uh, let me show you that thing also. I'll write down the logic here. Okay
And i'll show it. Uh, just let me go back. I'll create a task one
Okay
Now let's say I go to debuggers I activate this debugger once I have this let's say
Once I click this
Okay, I have to activate this button so that delete can be done
Once I do this I get inside this
then let's say
I have ticket here
Okay
Okay
It's converting into objective let's say
I'm writing one sort of logic, but there can be a better way of doing this one
Okay, it's converting me into empty but what all things are available here
Okay
Let's say if I get a class list I have the class list available
Okay. No, it's uh, I can check this if
Class list is equal to play equal to task area. Uh, this thing I can do I had a condition that
And
Event dot
Target dot class list
Of zero element is equal to play equal to task area
because uh, this will help us to identify uh reason behind if you see
Okay, why i'm getting till ticket info now
Okay
So one thing we have to take care here is that kiran like if you see multiple like even
Like whole div right now
How i'm getting this current element if you see this one?
If you see if I would try to print this I'm able to only print
Whatever thing I'm selecting not the whole ticket container
Not the whole ticket container
Like let's say if you see now whatever thing is deleted now only task one is deleted if I click this one
Only that part of thing is being deleted
Yes, yes, that's what I was talking about because that okay, okay, okay, I got that so
Just let me think of it like how we can deal with this one no problem we can do in further classes
Yeah, i'll explore this one. I'll get back to you. Okay. Yeah, sure. Thank you
Yeah, thank you kiran. Thank you for pointing this thing. Uh, we'll wait i'll figure out and come back. Okay
Uh muting your bag
So guys any other doubts any other doubts
Any other doubts
But it's nice thought you know, like I didn't think it
No one in the earlier batch also mentioned this thought thought uh and
Yeah, great like
Particular event target we are removing
Anyways, I'll come back and let you know guys, uh, so if there are further no doubts guys feel free to drop
I'm closing the session. Thank you for joining today. Hope to meet you on thursday where we'll close this project
Uh, we'll end the session. We'll end the project and hopefully you got to you know, revise the concepts
All the things that we have done maybe think through it, you know
Hope to see you guys in the next video. Bye
Come back come back on thursday and complete this and learn more few things. Okay edge cases
And thank you kiran. Thank you for all the things guys. Thank you for all the doubts
See you guys and good night. Take care
Bye
You
