you
you
Hi all good evening
Can anyone confirm if you can if I'm audible and visible this
Thank you
I
Share my screen if my skin share is also visible guys
So let's have time of four minutes
Yeah, so how are you all how's everyone doing? How's your work going at offices? How's your preparation going?
Any challenges
So how many of you have already sold all the assignments guys if you have sold all the assignments give me thumbs up once I
See three people
Okay
People who couldn't do it right who are not able to do the assignments in the challenges guys
That would be really helpful for our analysis also like we can really try to do if you are having time issues
Understand that but any other thing like you have it if you have any challenges do let me know
enlighteners or enlighten me so that
We'll try to work out on a part such that we can help you out
To left yeah, sure. Thank you promote
Okay
So I'll drop a message in the what's up guys all great. Thank you station great work keep doing
I
Just a second
I'm I am NOT great great something
You
So
What's up link
Give me a second guys
Can anyone share the whatsapp link guys I have to open and laptop
So if anyone can share it I can you know pin that
I
Great summit and scalar editor they have already one CSS style sheet is linked. What is the purpose of that? We can see it
Scalar editor I'm not sure because and I didn't open the scalar editor guys. Give me a second. I'll do it and
Let you know on that
We can use it I
Hope it should be editable, but not sure like how that works. I'll confirm to it Kabir
I'll check on that and confirm to it often. Okay
Yeah, okay, you might be having seen that link is attached in HTML is it like you hyper reference
Yeah, you can type it down using style tag directly
Okay
Yeah, so somebody's I shared what's up chat
In this thank you something
So guys, you know, let's get started with today's class
You know, okay. Did anyone go through get a prep? Oh guys. I have actually
I've added actually one of the screenshot earlier
So facing issues in question to anyone test cases are failing
We'll check that in touch in some bit. Can you add that as a question?
I will fix that one will verify okay add that as a question. We'll pick it up in touch
But guys did anyone got chance to go to get a repo?
I've added one of the you know picture which can help you to revise
positions
Okay positions property can anyone see
so
I've summarized all of them into one sheet
Will revise this thing again and we'll move ahead with the flexbox. Okay
so
Let's get started with agenda today what I have in my mind
So today's class is mostly based on one topic called flexbox will be spending more time on that
We'll understand what is this and why if we are using or why it is being used across like
Why it is like bread and butter for the person for the front-end developers who's working on CSS and will also understand media query
But this is the most important thing
I hope I'll try to explain my best and hope you solve all the doubts that you have if you are facing anything
Let me know. Okay, but before going to flexbox guys, I just want to revise
property position
So can anyone help me why or when that party position?
Property comes into the role in CSS. What is a use case of this?
When does we use position property?
Where do we actually use this position property anyone
Guys
To set something at a required place to allow to move aside any side, right?
So if by default when you write CSS like HTML
The every HTML element will have a desire, you know a place where it will render, right?
But that's a default place by from but if you want to move it from that default place to some other place around the
HTML, you know
I mean whole rendering box or the browser or any device that you are working on then you go for the position
Property where you by which you can move all the elements to any side that you have and to move all the elements you have
four properties top
bottom
left
And right right we use them
So any of the combination of two either this two or this two will help you to move the item any side, right now
When we started if we thought we say that by default default proper what would be the default property of position guys?
What we have discussed?
What would be the default property of version?
Static right, so by default all the HTML elements will have position called static, right?
So this is what we discuss then we went with discussion
There are two properties which plays major important role and major confusion, which is like related versus absolute
right
Now what we have understood is that if we want to move the element
With respect to its original position
Okay, whenever so imagine this thing if you are
There is a certain defined path like this is a HTML
Positioning by default when you add all the HTML content
But if you are moving any other part right using the same method
But if you are moving any other part right using position property
It is being moved on to the different layer once it comes under the different layer length
Then it can move or hover around the other properties, but it doesn't happen on the same layer
So all the properties through which
Which you can apply top bottom left right are generally on a different layer. Okay. Similarly, we also discussed absolutely something element
that moves with respect to
Window position
Right then we discussed went on to discuss with fixed and sticky
Fixed is wherever you define once you define a fixed again this axe element is set
With respect to window
Right and
Once you define any position it will be fixed even if you scroll this element doesn't move
Even if you scroll
Element is fixed so that's a unique thing
Sticky is also same thing, but you know when when you scroll it the behavior changes
The behavior of sticky
Changes
When you scroll
Right, so this is what we have discussed earlier in the class, right any doubts till now guys this thing, right?
You I hope everyone have a clarity on this one
Still if anyone have doubt, please let me know
And I hope everyone is clear on this
So now I want to add one of the other like, you know, then there's some one condition
I didn't want to complicate it in the last class
No, so as this one thing that I have want to talk about absolute property
Let's say
Now this thing we say that it will work with respect to windows
Okay, but this can be configured configured such that
It was configured such that it works
Or moves with respect to that element
Like to parent element
Or
Do I exactly mean by this is that let's say there is a div inside and then there is something called span or
Let's say span
Right
So what we are saying is that if let's say this is absolute position absolute
We think that now by default when we apply position absolute
If this will be moving according to window position, right?
Like it will be in your top zero or anything. It will move to window position
But this thing behaves differently when your parent element any parent element is having position
relative
So what I'm saying is that
Firstly whenever you apply any element absolute value
Then it goes into the hierarchy checks if there is any parent element or a wrapper around it
Which is having position relative if it is having it will move with respect to that parent element
Or else it will go to the window position
Is this point here guys how many of you have understood this one?
I'll give you an example of this one
Imagine like you have a drop-down value like you remember drop-down value
Let's say you have dropped on input type
Is equal to drop down
When you have drop-down value
Is equal to drop down
When you have this whenever you click here, which where you're having arrow
Let's say this is an arrow whenever you click you will see that there's a pane a list of
The list of items that comes exactly below it, isn't it?
It comes exactly below it
Right it will have a list of values, let's say these are the list of countries
You'll have India, let's say Bangladesh
Sri Lanka
Right
You'll usually this is the behavior of drop-down rate and whenever you see a drop-down, right?
This is usually looks like on a highlighted pin. Let's say this is a drop-down input
Then whenever you click that button, right the drop-downs like values you usually see in a bit of upper plane
Like you can use it using layers and you can verify that but that's how behavior looks right
Now in order to fix this one, right in order to fix this sort of behavior now
How would you approach? How would you approach this problem that you want something a child elements this being the parent element?
This being child element
To something which is moving with respect to this one
Like something is which in which is coming down and moving according to the parental
So in those use cases, you will see a combination of relative and absolute
Is this point here is?
So if you have any doubts on this let me know because I'll open that sheet again
Okay
Let's go to this sheet
Now if you see this what I made it I have all the properties static relative fix sticky and absolute
And I've given all the five parameters like distance like when I say distance
Where you can move can you move other element top bottom left right?
it's static you cannot move it because default nature in all other properties you will be able to and
Does it create layers like when you apply this property when we say layers what we exactly mean
Is that whenever your top bottom left and right are being applied, right?
that usually it means that that element is already elevated into the different position and
Whenever that element is elevated then only you will be able to move on to the different place because default nature will be on below
Okay. So
Wherever you will say for distance is yes and same layers will be having the same. Yes. Okay now
The important thing is what is the starting position when you apply like for static it will be default place for relative
It will be the original place wherever it started and for fixed it will be
Window like with respect to window top left like for sticky also with respect to window and for absolute
window or parent relative
right and when it comes to
Like this does it maintain the original place once applied these are like same thing
Like if you see this will like static is yes relative is yes
Fixed is no sticky will behave. Yes, because here I have to add another condition
I'll edit this one
But for sticky it will act like for with respect to it original position initially then when you scroll right when you scroll
It behaves in a different way. So that's why
With respect to like it start from original position, then it acts like with respect to window both the things
With a very whereas we come to this one absolute again. It doesn't maintain its original question, right?
now when it comes to scrolling all the elements, you know
Move like with the scroll but only fixed element doesn't move because they are particularly fixed at one particular position
Same goes with a sticky it moves like until it comes into the role
It the all the elements will move as as usual
But once the elementary it it is comes into the viewport then it behaves in a different way as you configure it, right?
I hope you'll go and revise this part and explore this one, right? So
How many of you feel confident about now position property post understanding this concepts I
See only one thumbs up guys
For
Shin there are many people in our class. I just need few more words to understand that like if you're feeling confident
Okay now so if you are confident, I need one help from you
Let's say we are building something now what I want to build
is that
where
We'll try to do something such that will have
Let's say a layout in which I have to fix the header
Like if you go and see any device any application that you want to see, let's say you pick it. I'm a song
Or flipkart or anything like if you go and see here
Five scroll if I scroll if you see this header is fixed, isn't it by scroll? This is fixed
How can I build that? How can I build that?
Just just let me help me out such that I can understand like how can we build this
Can anyone think of something guys
Any ideas guys, let's say I have a header
I
Say this is
Header of page I write down this one and I also let's say I have
Sections multiple sections
it says a
content
box one
And let's say I have content box two
Now
For going to style block, let's say we style a few of things
Yeah, what we'll do is that
Firstly
Let's say we say that section whatever section it is, okay
And let's say I also have an class
called box one and
Class as box two
Okay, now let's say I give her default height HEIT or 200 pixel and width is
Let's say again 150 pixel
Okay
And let's say we have a border of
two pixels solid
We have a border of two pixels solid black right let's say I have a box one
Background color
To be RGB
Say some random 24
45
63 okay. Similarly, I'll select the other one which will have box two
Let's reverse this one I'll put 45 here
I'll put 63 here
Okay
Say 45 here
Okay, now let's open the preview here firstly
If you see here, we got the two boxes and let's say
If you see one thing guys
Here on the top. There is an empty space on the left is also empty space. Why this space is coming guys?
How can I fix this issue?
We have discussed this problem. Also, how can we fix this issue?
Right, yeah, we have to give the universal selector
Such that we define that hey, we don't need any margins or
Right, let's say padding zero and there is another property that we prefer is
Border box sizing right
Border box to apply the exact things right now, let's say we go for height is as like this way
With this
300
Okay, fine. No
Height is let's say 500
No, okay fine if you see here, let's say I also add some styles to the header part
Say I say color
Background color
Any background colors guys?
I
Have having the same
Okay, and I'll make it with as hundred percent. I don't want to give pixel
Okay. No, this is how the behavior is now what I want to talk about is that I want to fix this header header
Is something like we are able to scroll so how can I fix this header?
What do you guys were suggesting to me earlier? I?
I didn't look into the chat position fixed. Okay, let's say I call it as position fixed
Now I fix the question does it solve it
But do you see this that my behind the scene the box one is like, you know hiding
Behind it. How can I fix this that you know my box one comes below?
This is position sticky
Okay, I will try that so let's say I try that sticky, okay
Now even if I try that sticky if you see that
Issue seems to be fixed which I was mentioning that a content one box is not visible when I
Select fix but still when I'm you know, scrolling it you see that that is not fixed onto the top
What can be the issue is
Padding where you want to add padding some bit
Where you want to add padding
Let's say I'll give a padding also, but doesn't matter padding is not the right thing
Think of it
Once we apply once we apply position. What are the fields we play around with?
Once we apply position, what are the fields we play around with
What are the fields we use it to move the element
Top bottom right or left right. So once I am giving this fixed
Where this item I wanted to be fixed where this item should be fixed
Top zero, right
You guys agree firstly
Even then if you see it's not working
What could be the issue
Like even then let's say refresh even still I am not able to see
My element to be on there. Like how can we fix this?
Think of it guys. Like if you go back into the Amazon, let's say I'm scrolling you can see
It is still sticking there like let's say inspect it now, let's see the behavior how it is built
If I go around and let's say this is the diff but
This is the whole day, right?
Let's go and see here. What is the position? This is there using position static, but
Let's say I scroll it down
It's not coming now, let's use some different website maybe
Flipkart
This is working as expected at least
Let's say I go and select this one. This is their Dave
Let's say this is their Dave. Okay
Let's say this is their Dave, okay
If you see here, they use display flex will see understand all the points here border boxing is fine
But I'll select this one
and
All this are fine
Okay, let's go to computer and see if there is any position property applied
No
So
There is no position property applied this
So, how do you think that this particular thing is working like when I'm scrolling it is still fixed there
Can't we just increase the width of the header and add the index? Okay, let's try it
Let's try it out. Let's say I give this
height of the header of
hundred pixel and
width of
100%
Okay
No, I've done this now. What I'm saying is that you want z-index, right? Let's say I add a z-index of
thousand if you need like
Even then my content box is not visible
Even then my content boxes make the section as relative and keep the top value
Here it says makes a section. Okay
Okay, let's say I make this position as section as position relative
fine now and
Give the top value equal to height. Okay, let's say I give top
Which is 500 pixel
Only to the first section, okay, let's I cut it here and I waste it here again
Do you see any change here
If I comment this
Then the position relative is applied and it is moved to the below
But if I'm not commenting this one
If I'm not commenting this one
Because this is coming into the different layer guys just thinking from perspective of this one
Let me refresh it
Guys give me a second
Okay, and
Where did I mess up yeah
So this is what we were doing it can we use Omni food website, which is practice for okay
Shall we make box relative?
So guys what I'll do is that I
Want you to think on this problem and come back. This is a really basic problem
You can go into any site and search right we have seen that how can we make a position like, you know stick it
How can we make a position like, you know stick it now if you go to the
Earlier class also if you go for the position if you go for fixed item
We have shown like how can you fix that item, right? How can you fix that item to the top? But
We have to learn like how can we make it obvious that you know, the other items are like visible, right?
Make a margin top of a section height
I don't know you can try it down this one
Please come up with solution so that we'll move it with the class and we'll address this one in break time
works is
We're addressing break time. I'll give you 10 minutes in the break. I'll push the code you guys think of it post the break
I'll fix it
Okay
so
Let's get started with today's class now
Coming back to because when you up like by theory, right what I just wanted to show by theory you can
You can understand topics, but when you apply it, right?
So there's too many, you know suggestions and too many things
Now if you go and try to fix it on your own
You'll understand like what is actually when you can apply the all the concepts taking in all the possible positions, right? Okay
now
Let's get started
Let's get started
With the flexbox guys
Okay
Have anyone used flexbox earlier
Have anyone used flexbox earlier?
No
No, cool
Great
So
Guys till now we discussed property called display, right?
How this property used to help us how this property used to help us display property
What are the possible values we have learned in line
Block
In line block
Then none right
We were be able to align elements as we wanted using them right on a on an axis level
Let's say horizontally or vertically
Using this one and then we were able to apply height and width using in line block, right?
We can we are able to hide using none. So this is what we have learned right till now
Do you guys agree with me?
On display property now there is a new value that you can
Provide it for display which is flexbox flex
display flex now
What or how what problem this flex is solving actually till now whatever websites we have seen or designed it, right?
We have designed it without considering
any
Size of the particular device right my laptop your mobile or your laptop your tv screen anything
So when we say client client can be anything right it's like multi-device or cross-device applications
So you whatever websites you build it should be cross
Uh, you know cross-device application like once you're designing it should be applicable for all the things
So what they told is like what if you want to build something like, you know layout structures
Layout structures like if you want to align elements in layout like or you want to build a layout like
Hey this this thing should be here that thing should be there and how you want to arrange in terms of layout
for the cross-device applications
The solution introduced was flexbox and this is
one direction
One direction layout
This can be used for a
Small to medium scale applications
We'll see in the next class another property called grid which can be used which which is actually two direction layout
Okay
Which will be a two direction layout and will be solving for the bigger applications, okay
So I hope this introduction is clear like flexbox is usually used to solve
Cross-device application problems or you can say responsiveness how many of you heard this word responsive websites?
When we say responsive website what we exactly mean like one application should be supporting to the all media devices media devices when I say
All types of screen could be a mobile
Mobiles can be of different size rates some screens are because some screens are larger
but every website that you open or app you open in mobile all are like
Working in a right way as we expected isn't it?
So if you want to build those kind of applications or though if you want to do it that way
Then yeah, rightly said something we go with one of the layout
If you want to lay out the design then you go for the flexbox now
To understand few basic things, right?
How many you have you on how many of you know this like x-axis and y-axis?
How many of you understand this x-axis and y-axis?
So basic geometry, right? Basically basic maths in geometry, right? So
All the flexbox revolves around this axis axis game only right so
in general
This direction right?
There's a one property in flexbox like once you define display as flex
You have to design since it's a one direction as I say one direction you have to decide
Hey where
My items will be aligned
Will be aligned
Like
We were earlier used to convert inline to block block to inline because we are converting from horizontal vertical vertical to horizontal
Still still that same concept still it is the same concept. So
To convert to make this one, right? We have
One property called flex direction
In the flex direction you have four values, but we'll consider we'll filter out two values are only
row or column
Okay, now by default
Flex direction is true. So whenever you have multiple elements, let's say we go and design and we come back to this part
Okay, let's say we go back and create one file called
You know flexbox dot html
Okay, and what we'll do is that we'll use html5 extension
And we'll close this we'll call something as flexbox
Fill open show preview
Will minimize this one?
Let's say what i'll do is like i'll have a container inside that i'll have a multiple types called one
Uh, let's say I have a four
So
Okay, now what i'll do is that let's say these are the class
I call it as flex items flex item. I'll apply the common class to all
So
Now if you see this I i'm not doing anything else like let's say I call this class as a flex container so
Okay, and what I'll do is that i'll open the style block
And i'll select this flex container
And let's say I give display equal to flex
What's happening is all the elements are aligned horizontally right though
These are block level elements. What's the default nature of block level elements? It starts on new line and take whole row space, isn't it?
That is what we have learned right
Takes the whole row space, but once we apply display flex those are all aligned into horizontal
Now we'll come back to this explanation like why this is happening actually what is happening here?
Okay
As i've told you that this is it always align the elements in one direction
Whether it is like a row or column you have to choose by default flex direction is zero
Okay now
Whenever your elements are like consider i'm considering flex direction and row and i'm trying to explain this approach
Okay
The x-axis is called as major axis
And the y-axis is called as
Minor axis
Okay, this is the convention that people generally use to explain okay flexbox
Is that clear guys, uh, give me a second
Okay, uh, let's let's move this we call it as main axis and cross axis
These are not specific to x and y these are not specific to x and y
These are specific to flex direction if your flex direction becomes column then this would become
Main axis and this would become cross axis
Is this point clear guys
Refer to it if row flex direction is row main axis would be x
And cross axis would be y
And if flex direction is column main axis would be
Y and cross axis would be x
Okay now
Once this is clear now all the css properties right in flexbox are divided into two things
Between container
And its items
Okay now every time you apply display as flex
To a container item or the parent element so that you want to align all the child elements
So that you want to align all the child elements
Okay, you apply display flex to the container or the parent item so that you can align all the child elements
Similarly what we have done here if you see the example
We applied display flex to the container like which is a wrapper here
And we are trying to align this children elements, right?
Now
So there are a few list of properties which applies to container
There are a few list of properties which apply to items
We'll see them one by one
But till now the concept is clear, right? What is main axis cross axis?
And container and items definition
How you can relate with it?
Guys any doubts till now
I
Hope there are no doubts now. We'll go to the practical thoughts all things. Okay
Now let's say what I'll do is that I'll have a container height
Container height as let's say 500 pixel and width
As
100 percent and what I'll do is that I'll have a border
Two pixel solid black
Okay, let's say I have this I also make again
Margin zero padding
Zero, right? No
So
Also, I say that margin should be five pixel so that we can see the box now
Let's go
And apply some properties to this flex containers or flex items also so that we can see all the changes that we'll be applying to each
Okay
flex item
Let's say I can give
height of
Each item, let's say 50 pixel
And width would be
Again 100 pixel
Okay, I let's say border
Two pixel solid
Blue
And let's say margin of five pixel, okay
And we'll have let's say this other item one
One item two
Item three and item four
I go and select the item one first and I'll give the background color
As let's say tomato
So
Let's say item two
Background color as dodger blue
Okay, so item three as
This
Blue violet doesn't look good, but let's go with brown then we'll go with item four
Background color as
Okay, let's convert this into black
Okay
Okay now
So what we have done is we have just distributed all the elements like we have created a box inside that
We uh just have done this now. Okay
Flex item text align center cool. Okay
We've aligned it now
But what we have done we have created just a box inside that i've set up the all the items and given basic css
I should I hope everyone should be wouldn't be having any doubts till now because I haven't done anything new
Till now, right? So
Now our container is flex
What is the by default guys? What is the default position of flex direction that I have told you just now?
What was the default direction of flex direction?
Row right now, let's say I give it row again
now when the
When I give it row, there is no change if you see but when I convert into column
If you see all the elements will be again converted into
This like vertically now, what would be the main axis guys? What would be the main axis when flex direction is a column?
So
Why right then cross axis would be x remember that thing that basic definition
Now also flex direction gives us ability in order to rotate the items. Okay, let's say I say column reverse
When I say reverse if you see it took to the it went to the bottom position
And it reverted it started from below
Right started from down. It went to the bottom and then started from reverse
Similarly also you can apply row reverse
Is this clear say is this clear like how this thing is working?
Like how flex direction can be used to align items vertically or horizontally. Okay. Let's say I make it as only
now
Once this is done
You also have an ability. Let's say I have much space now if you see
There is one property called justify content
Whenever you go for justify content
If you see this x-axis having more space, isn't it?
Let's say if I drag it further if I drag this further is having more space
Like on x-axis it started from left corner, but it is having some empty space, isn't it?
Guys, can you see this empty space?
What if you don't you want to utilize this space like you don't want to sit on any website?
If you see this space is like looks ugly what you can do if you want to move these elements
Left right or anyway, you can use justify content property and you can give
values like center
Which will move
Like however width your x-axis can be but it will move all the elements into the center
Or else you can give like if you want it to be flex start
When I say flex start it means that it will be aligned to the left only
Okay, if I wanted to align to the right I can go to flex end
Okay
Similarly if I wanted to align like such that if they're all are distributed all are distributed and occupies complete space
Right, we can use something called a space between now as much as you as much as you drag as much as you drag
So these are being you know taking space as it needs. Can you see this guys?
So why we call this flex box is as you develop as you even if you pull the screen out
You make it big or small it will automatically it works like a jelly if you pull it it will stretch if you leave it
It will come close
Do you see that feeling where we use display flicks? I didn't apply many properties yet
But it is spreading like a jelly and taking it whatever it is. That's how magical it is
That's why we say that whenever we are using flexor, we are we are building actually cross device application
Okay. Now, let's say i've used the space between
Now that's okay. I'm moving something i'm moving something around the x-axis
What if I want to move along the y-axis? There's a lot of empty space below
What if I want to utilize that then you have something called as align items?
You can go and use align items where if I let's say I give flex start
Nothing will change because it is sticking to the start only on the top
If I give it as end see it went to the bottom it stick to the bottom
Right if I give it as a center
It stick to the center
right
Now many people have asked me like how can you center at dips the simple solution you go on internet?
You will find it this one
right
design a box
Dip box which is
Make it display flex and give it like justify align content as a center handle
Now if you see even if I stretch it further
The box will look like in
at the center
Yeah, these all properties whatever properties i'm applying all with respect to only display flex if I comment this display flex
Or let's say I comment this display fix if you see this
No property will be aligned by default this div are the block elements block level elements
So all the elements still works like a block level
Is that clear aswini?
So these all elements works only when your display is flexed
So we are applying all these properties to the container. Just remember that guys that we are applying all these properties to the container
okay
now
Let's do you want me to write those definitions also here in comments so that you can remember or if I share notes that would work
I need your comments guys so that it works for both of us
Like if you want me to write I can I have already returned some definitions I can
Let's say I paste it here such that flexed a flex item, okay
Yeah, okay, let's say I use this
Also I
I mean I have
Testing already written in different batch. So I'm just copying it from my notes
Okay. So what we have said that flex direction it is it defines a flexed items direction like flex items
These are the items in it, right?
Are the least items like where you want to be shown them and it has which are directly proportional to main axis
Okay, wherever like if you are if it is zero main axis is zero if flex section is column main axis is column and
Items will be aligned that way and justify content. This property is always applied to main axis since it is a row
According to row it is working in center and align items. This will work according to cross axis
So remember in terms of main axis and cross axis, this will be really helpful
now
Guys, do you see this if I reduce it further if I reduce it further these boxes are getting stringed isn't it?
These boxes are getting stringed but we have given each box
A particular height and width right this boxes are we have given this items each particular box height and width
What if we want it to stick it? What if we want to stick it?
So for that we can say that hey can we wrap these items if your space is getting reduced
You can always wrap the items now if you see what automatically when I use wrap this items got
Distributed taking that same width and height if I increase my space again, the items will be aligned in the same room now
Uh, let's say I reduce the height as 30
Uh, this is fine 50 but
Okay
No worries
so
I hope you're getting the understanding like what flex wrap does flex wrap is usually helpful to define like hey
My item height and width are this 100 pixel
But if the space is reducing can you move the item to the next line?
Like if you are writing a paragraph in your notes, right?
Let's say you start from a line one and you are writing it your line one is finished
You'll start writing the paragraph in the next line, right?
But you wouldn't reduce the font size of your first line and you try to adjust all the paragraph in only line one, isn't it?
Like just consider like you're taking our notes and you have a rule book
You're starting in the line one. Now your line one is completely finished
You have moved to the end. I have the book now you want to go and write on the second line, right?
This is the same thing if you give flex wrap as a wrap
It will take whatever space it have and if it is not
Having enough space to render the next element or write the next element. It will move to the next room
Okay, what if I give it as no wrap? Let's say no wrap if I give it no wrap
And if I reduce the space it will try to align that same thing like you are you want to adjust whole paragraph in only line one
Remember it that way
Okay
I hope this would be clear guys how wrap works
When to use a wrap?
Right, there's also something called as wrap reverse
It will move the items up and down order
Okay, we don't basically use it, but this is a property is used for flex wrap
Now, uh, i'll add a content for this one also
Let's see it helps to wrap elements as per width available like reference screen width
Whatever screen width is available according to that it will adjust the element width
Okay, I hope these properties are clear guys, whatever we have discussed till now. Okay, four properties we discussed display flex
Flex direction justify content align items and flex wrap
after that
You know, there is one property
called
Flex flow
Flex flow
Like it generally defines in which direction you are generally flowing like when if when we say in which direction
You are all the elements are flowing. It's a combination of
flex direction
It's a combination of flex direction and flex wrap
Okay
If you say let's say I make it flex flow as row wrap
Okay, and I can comment
These two things still it would work in the same way
It still would work in the same way
So it's a combination of two fields
like a short short format like you go for
Uh, we've seen that padding left padding right padding top padding bottom
We can design it only one thing we we have discussed like top right bottom left right same way
If you want to combine two properties and write down
You can use flex flow you can design direction and you can say that whether you want to wrap it or no wrap
So people generally use right they directly go use instead of flex direction and flex wrap
They directly use flex flow and they use column wrap or row wrap
That's easier, right?
So I hope this this point is also clear guys there's nothing
Uh like to be understood here. It's just a combination of flex direction flex wrap you can give space separated both the fields
Okay
Now there's a one last item
That that which is present something called as align content
Now this is different from the align items guys, this is different from the aligned. Let's just see what's happening
If I use as flex start
What just happened guys
If anyone can explain what is happening from the behavior I would be I would really appreciate you like let's say I move flex end
Or else, let's say I I just make it center
Okay, the children got aligned with the container right now let's say uh
Uh
Align to canvas. Okay. Now, how would I explain this? Okay, let's say I
Take an ip i i'll explain an ipad
So
Let's say you are
boxes of this size
Okay, and you define
Flex items here. This is a container you have one two, three four
Items which are having let's say one
Two three four
I hope this is visible guys
Like for a while i'll zoom it in. Okay, this is where your container is there. This is a whole html document
Or your device width viewport you can say
Okay, and then let's say this is your flex container
And the items
Now
This is aligned onto the
Like top left, right?
But what if we want to move this container in this free space anywhere like what if we wanted to move
Somewhere around center, let's say you wanted to move here center or somewhere you want to move to end
Now till now you were aligning all the internal items
You are aligning all the internal items like whether flex start flex and center
But this particular
Aligned content right that works with respect to html like absolute field used to work for the position
So this container where it should be returned with respect to html
Is that clear according to your viewport or html you can say
Guys how many of you understood this property align content?
Uh, I see two thumbs up I need a few more guys if you're convinced, okay, cool. Thank you
Cool. Thank you
As per html as in like this is our whole viewport right some bit like whole
Whatever viewport it is like even if you have less space, let's say if I reduce it
Uh
It wouldn't work that way
But I have this is list of com terminal section
But what i'm saying is that hold your screen size in your screen size if all the elements are lying on the one end
But your screen other screen is empty. You want to move on the anywhere in the empty screen
Then you can use align content. So that's why i'm saying that with respect to window or html. Okay now
So
I have written some specific definition like considering height and width property
So if you see what I have given as a comment here
It works same as a align and align item
But if container height is very large in that case, it helps to put the element as a respective version using this property
Yeah
So it it takes the free space inside the body. No, not exactly. Let's say I also add
a flex item
Give me a second. I'll help you out understand this one
If you see I reduce to 100
Now when I move it to the 100
This align items if I give flex start
Or flex end
Or center
Okay, nothing major change is being applied here
but only if your container if you are like whole container height is way much or
Like whatever your container is there in that that flex
Sorry flex container
Whatever flex container height is there in that if you have empty space you can move align the items the children's all the children
Okay
so
Guys, these are the things that you can actually apply
To the flex container, I hope all these properties are clear. I'll try to revise here once. Okay. Give me a second
Okay, so
Let's say
For the container as we have seen it here
So one of the property is called
flex direction
Which is used to define?
In which direction the elements will be now what what all we have seen here what all properties are available row
column
Then you have row reverse column reverse
Right then we have seen the other property called justify
Content
Justify content always aligns with main axis
Right so here you can align always the items on the main axis
Yeah on the main axis like flex start
Flex end
Then you have center space between
Or space around
You have a list of properties that you can apply to move elements around your main axis
Okay, then you have something like
Align items
This applies to cross axis
Right again all these properties whatever you have here same
Then we have discussed something called as flex wrap
Like to to adjust according to the width how you want to adjust all the elements like you have here properties like
Wrap no wrap wrap reverse
Then
We talked about something called as flex flow
Right which is a combination of
Flex direction
Space flex wrap
A
Shortcut but you can define it then we talked about one of the other field which is align content
To move
All the items
Flex items
Like
Inside container
Like
To start end or anything. These are the properties that we have learned
So any doubts on these guys anything you want me to revise in this or this is clear
If you are if you have understood these properties and their usage give me thumbs up guys
If you are clear with these properties
Okay
I see four people giving me thumbs up few more guys. It would be really helpful
Great, thank you. So now
Let's go to the items
Now we have said that all these properties whatever we applied are respective to container
Right all the properties that we applied are on only on container wherever we have defined as flex container now for how
Let's say I also give some background color here
Any background color guys that you like
It's a slate gray, that's fine. Okay. Yeah slate gray. Thank you
so now
All the properties till now whatever we applied are for the container right now
But what how children's canvas like how children's can all the child elements right flex items
how they can change for them there are basically a set of properties like
One of the property is called order
Now if you see here the items of order order of these items are one two, three four
What if I want this fourth item?
To be displayed first
Or the third item to be displayed in between these two
Can we do it this arrangement using CSS?
So this can be done in flexbox
How can we achieve it? Let's go to that property something called as order
now by default
Anything will have order zero
Okay order zero now, let's say I rearrange this one. Firstly, uh
I'll arrange and show like something like let's say I give order zero to each item first
Okay
Order zero now what what we want to do is like we want to align them again such that one two, three four
No, so whichever value will have less order now that will
Be coming first. Let's say what I mean exactly is that let's say I make item order four as a four order
Okay, so it went to the last if I make order item of three
Then it will come last a second. Then if you see by default it is zero zero, but I can make two and one
Right, so this is how order works whichever is having the lower order by default it will come first if
There is a chance that let's say if I make this both order zero and zero
By default one is coming first
The reason behind the first is present above the item two
Okay
Okay
Now let's say if we want to rearrange this item, let's say I again, uh, what I do it is that I fix this one firstly
Let's say I fix this item three
Keeping it here
item four keeping it below
So by default what I did is like I kept the normal nature. However, the items are there. What if I want
Fourth item to be first what I can do is if I want this fourth item to come first in in place of one
What I can do the order of item four should be less compared to the order of other items
How can we do that
Like can we make order order of item four equal to zero
Then this is the first element, right? This will become the first element that to come in the screen
so generally the order
Is used to rearrange the items that are children's or like flex items
Like in which order you want to represent if you want to play around with order, then you can use this property
I hope this is the thing is clear guys how order works or how order helps us in order to rearrange
the existing children flex, uh items
Uh negative values. It doesn't work. Let's say I make
Minus three it is working, but by default it starts from zero
Have you know
Let's say I make minus three three is coming. Let's say I make again minus two
Three still there if I make minus four it still works but
I never used a negative go with positives starting from zero because by default
By default order value for any element would be zero there wouldn't be like minus
Integer value max integer value
Okay
That's how the reason that's why I say that only play around with the positives
Okay, but I hope uh, okay vigneshwar what's what I was trying to say that
Uh, let's say I remove order property all the order property, okay
Okay
Do you see all the items are aligned as like we have written in html 1 2 3 4
Right now what I want is that
One to come at last one to come at last
Like instead of uh one coming at the first one two three four. I want to see it as two three four one
Then what I can do by default the item two and three and four are having default value of order as zero
I can go I can use define order. I can give order as one
Once I give order one all these are item like order having zero then by default this is having a higher order
So it will come at last whichever is having lower order. It will come at first it starts from ascending order
Consider zero as a default value, okay
If I want to move the item three should be the like last second
Then I can say that order should be two
Once I give it to if you say two and four are having still order zero
And then item will one come then item three will come
That's how it rotates. I hope the order definition is clear what order does
Okay
Okay, so i'll add it here guys what order does order is helpful in order to rearrange the
Order in which elements are rendered too much order order in the definition also what I've written
But I hope this thing this definition makes it further clear like what is exactly we are doing dealing with this
Okay now then there is something else guys then there is something else now
Now
We have used something called as flex wrap
If you see it is coming into the second position if I reduce it further
If I reduce it further if you see one item, but what like let's say I open in
Live server
Okay, let me open this one I want to show you other some other properties or how it works
Now if you see this, this is how we defined items
Now I convert into different sizes I can use this one to move to different sizes
I am going for the mobile version now if I reduce it further if you see i'm going into one direction if I reduce it further
This is shrinking isn't it?
Or else if I increase it these are increasing this much but as as soon as I increase the screen
As soon as I increase the screen they are like even like till here they are into one size
Even if I increase further, they're not increasing in nature, right? They are that small only but what if your screen?
Yeah hamburger menu
I didn't get that
Okay, this one responds here. Okay
Yeah, you can use this mobile any mobile version that you have. Okay, but I am using response in order to drag it
Yeah
So what I was saying guys here is that understand the problem let's say I have
A tv
Uh, I have to make 100
Just let me refresh this
Okay. Anyways, if you see let's say I have a tv
And my tv is smaller in size
I'm able to see fully filled i'm able to see all the pictures, but what my what if my tv size increases
The item size are still same
Let's say you are seeing the cricket match on a
32 inch screen
Okay, that's fine
But what if that same 32 inch screen you will see all the players like very small in size
If that same match is rendered on a cinema theater size of screen, let's say that big
70 mm 90 mm screens right in that that range of screen
Do you if you see that say your small players are playing would be able to see that?
Will it be able you will be able to see your neck by your naked eye or you need a binoculars to see them, right?
So what we say when you go for the responsive nature
Whenever you are increasing the size the elements whatever children items are there
Their size size should increase and with reduction their size also should decrease
How many of you agree with this point guys?
How many of you agree with my this point the size should increase and decrease along with the screen size, isn't it?
If size is same then we'll have a lot of issues, isn't it?
So to address them right to address them
We have two properties in order to address the sizes
Something called as let's say I remove the order property because we know it how order works
We have something called as flex grow
When we use flex grow
We say that by what size you want to increase this item
Let's say I say one
And let's say I say here flex item two as a two
Okay, and I again I give it here I comment this order
This one has a one and this one also one
But do you see uh behavior here guys what's happening
Like we have defined flex items to have height of 50 and 100 pixel once we gave flex flow
flex grow
They are behaving as the fish right according to the screen size. They are not taking this height and width
Right
Whatever default height and width are there this width and height we defined it when we thought of this screen particular screen
But we didn't thought of like whole approach, right?
How many screens we can have many screens we can have n number of mobiles we can have new mobiles can come
But we want to support all of them. So for that reason whatever items by default you give
Like this width property, right?
Width or height depending on how we align the items now it is according to the row
So width is not playing the role if you align align according to vertically then height wouldn't play any role
Now, let's see once I gave flex one item flex item to us flex two only
Remember this thing that only item two is having flex guru as two all other items are having flex grow as one
Now let's go onto the browser and see what's happening
Now let's say this is the browser that I have
Now the if you see on the mobile since the space is small only
Using a flex wrap of the container. It took whatever space it needs if I reduce this further
Okay, if you see it is reducing further, but what if I keep growing?
If I keep going if I keep growing again, do you see this like there is something that I want to see you
It's like can you see the item two comparatively it is double of size of all the other items
Item two is double size of all the other items when we are growing the screen
Isn't it so whenever we want one particular item
Let's say there is a particular item in which there are too much paragraph
Let's say this is having something along with two. Let's say there is a span tag
And too much of paragraph let's say lorem 20 right
Let's say this is a too much amount of paragraph, okay, let's give lorem 5 only
Okay
Okay, the paragraph is there now
Let's see now if I reduce it that's fine
But if I want that paragraph to contain to be readable when I grow right I want that item to grow
So that it can be visible as such. We want we also want to increase the font size
That's where media queries will come. I'll show you how can you deal with that?
But for the from the item level from the flex item level, I hope this point is clear
Whenever you want a particular item to grow at a double rate or 1.5 rate or any rate compared to the other elements
You can specifically define the values of flex go that with respect to that
Now let's me let me give you the definition how you can remember that what how do I remember it?
Okay, if you see this
What I say is that flex i flex grow is used when we want the items to grow with the ratio
When the fifth of screen is in the width of screen increases like whatever ratio like this is increasing
Item two is increasing with the with the double of all the other items
one is to two ratio
Okay, I hope this is clear guys how the flex grow works
Is that clear guys flex grow similarly we have something called as flex shrink also
Now flex shrink is also in the same way. Let's say I shrink it by two
And I have let's say this is as one
And let's say this is as one
This is also same definition as flex grow
This is also same definition as flex grow, but this is like when you are reducing the width of a particular
Screen, let's say I reduce it
Now if you see the after a some extent rate after some extent the one will reduce further at speed
Our rate one will reduce our speed rate if you see one is comparatively smaller
If you want me to show let's say i'll pick it as
three
So each to one ratio
If you see
Let me comment flex grow as of now then you will be able to see how that flex shrink is working
Okay
Now what I have done is like I have just used flex
String three as for the item one and all other items are still flex like one
If I go back
And I reduce it
Why this is not working as expected
Give me a second guys
Refresh
Wouldn't work it but
Let's say I did I mess up with some property let me remove this pan tag we don't need it
Uh, I use flex string for the one of the thing then I
Did I use right spelling that's that's that's fine, but let's say I have a width of 100 pixel
uh
1000 pixel and if I reduce it all are reducing it same rate
Uh guys i'll fetch the example for first thing, but it's it is in same way
how flex grow works if you want the one of the particular item that you want to you know shrink in the faster rate compared to
The existing thing then you can use a flex string like if I write down the exact definition, right?
This is how it works
Flex string is used when we want the items to shrink when the width of screen is when the width of screen decreases like
uh
Let's say I remove the wrap for now flex wrap if I remove the flex wrap you will be able to see now
that
If you see the item one is of one by third of size, let's say I go and reduce this
whatever
Flex string we applied let's say I reduce this one now just see this if i'm reducing it
If I give it one now all the items are having the same space
But if I take it as two it will have less like if I enter it
It will have it will string further at a speeder rate
I hope this thing is clear like if I increase it further if you see that size is increasing a bit
But it will reduce by half of the size each time
We can give 1.25. Yeah, I can we can give any unit as we want
Okay
Like if you see it's reducing it double rate now, whatever
Reduce this is reducing with that comparatively it reduces with a speeder rate
But exact dimensions when you're dealing with flex screw and flex string, right?
You have to decide like
Exactly, like how proportionate you want to do it
but whenever i'm applying the flex wrap it is automatically adjusting the
You know alignment since it is going to the next row
The flex link is not applying because it is having the enough space to render the each item in a row
Is that clear guys how flick why flex string is not working when we have flex wrap?
Because it is having enough space. It is it don't need to increase any of the item firstly until unless they are in one row
It is not needed
Okay
Then then there is another one
Field another property which is like a property called basis. Okay
Okay
now
Let's say I comment this one also flex string
Now basis is something like guys. What is the default?
Now basis is also applies
Along the main axis itself. It's a flex basis
Whenever you give flex basis, you are supposed to define what is our default height of the item
What would be the default height of the item let's say if I give 100 pixel
100 pixel now if you see let's go on to the screen and what's happening here
Okay, I go and apply here the flex basis is 100 now if I reduce it if I reduce it see this what's happening
So by default when even when you grow even when you grow you want certain items to have that particular space only, right?
So imagine what are these three properties?
Right are dealing with it whether increase with the screen size or reduce with the screen size or keep it a fixed size
Doesn't matter. Uh, like if the size is increasing it will be minimum of that size
Let's say now what happened with the item one if you see it if I have the more space
Item two three four are increasing in width but item one is constant because maximum
It will have only 100 pixel if I reduce it
It will reduce to any content any extent but maximum height is at maximum width
Whatever it can be i'm defining using flex basis. You can also give in terms of percentages. Let's say I give
25 percent
Okay
Now if I give 25 percent it will be like whatever according to screen size it will fix according to 25 percent
Okay
So flex basis is generally user to define what could be the item's maximum height. Sorry maximum width and
Even you will increase the screen size. It will like if you give it percentages
It will auto adjust because of screen width when you are increasing reducing
But if you give a fixed unit like pixels or rem or em, then that is the maximum, you know width
It will be considered but if you are already shrinking it it will shrink as much as it can it is needed
Is that clear guys like how this property works flex basis?
I
I'll add a definition to this
So i'll show you an application for this one all guys like we'll build something so that you know
You are you'll be able to remember
When you have
Fix width or height
With respect to
Flex direction
Particular
Size of item
Okay, so guys revising again, let's go to ipad and then
Uh, so hey mangi you want me to repeat this one? I'll repeat it. So what I was saying is that
Flex basis is generally used to define what would be let's say if I have certain certain things, right?
Let's say
I want this particular item to be minimum of 100 pixel
Consider this as a minimum of sorry maximum of 100 pixel not more than that
If I go on to the screen here, let's say even if I increase the screen size width
It is only maximum of 100
But if I reduce it it can still reduce it
So whenever you want to fix a particular item height like this is a maximum
Width it can take or maximum height can take you can you should go for the flex basis property
So all these three properties whatever we have learned
Are dealing with whether to grow a particular item or reduce the particular item or it
At which ratio it should grow with compared to the other one or what would be the maximum height to it?
So these are all processing but dealing with actually
item
item flex items width
How they should play around when you increase them reduce the screen size?
Is that clear hey mangi you are able to relate it
Yeah, okay, so i'll try to revise this guys again, uh, let me come back to ipad once
Okay, let's come to items
So we discussed three properties one is flex crow
Like
It takes numbers
And user to define
The ratio
At which
Particular item
That's a flex item
Should increase
Should grow
When size of screen grows
When size of screen grows
Okay, next we have same thing as a flex string
So this is actually mostly same definition right it takes again number
And use it to define
Ratio
At which
Particular
Flex item
Should reduce decrease
Decreases
When
Size of screen reduces
Decreases
Okay, then we had something discussed about something called a flex basis
This is user to define
Size of
Each element
That it can take
As max value
You can assign percentages
Or
Pixel or em or rem
We'll come to all the units different units, but this is how it works
so guys
I hope these points are clear how
Basically what we are dealing with yeah order. I have to write order just a second. I'll write order
If you
Want to
Change order existing order
Of element
You can use
To change
And default order is
Zero and ascending
Order will be rendered
Okay, so
We have discussed some least of properties guys, I hope
These properties are clear to you firstly like when it comes to container when it comes to item
So what I'll do is like once we have these nodes and these examples, right? I want you to go and play around with them
Okay
so
Uh, can I have one thumbs up if you have understood all these properties guys?
So that we can go ahead with the break
And I'll push the code
And if you are able to solve that problem, right where we got stuck in the position I would be happy
Others I'll address that
Okay
So how many do you need do you need break guys or should I continue
Like what do you prefer like how many minutes break you need if you need it?
You need five minutes
Or how much you need it?
Continue, oh, okay. Hey man says continue guys people in favor of continue
Okay, uh, so I see two two votes
Let's take five minutes break guys so that you can think of problem also position then we'll come back and continue the other items
Okay. Next we will build some layouts. Actually, we'll actually build layout and we'll see how we can leverage flexbox
Okay
Let's say
Five minutes break
Okay
I'm starting this guys. Please take your break. I've pushed the code. Uh, you can verify that problem. Okay
You
You
You
You
You
You
You
You
You
You
Uh guys is everyone back
Opened I didn't understand your question for the first time. Uh, dev css is enough or doping reaches
Uh
Can you explain me better further I can understand
Check on that
So guys, can you give me again thumbs up guys if you're back some reactions you displayed a timer in the break time
Okay for that timer we need uh, js we need js because there's a buttons right button you click it you reset it
So for all of them we need
So guys anyone able to figure out?
What was the issue with that problem position one?
I believe everyone was somewhere near around only while if we are fixing this one we have to just move the
this one right
like box one
whatever height whatever height of the header is let's say if we have to fix the
header height
And the header height was defined using this one, let's say if I have a height header height of header as 15 pixel
Okay, once we have that we can give margin top right for the box
Margin top as 15 pixel
Now let's say you have to address it like let's say 25 or let's say
Since this is a paragraph, right? Let's say 40 pixel and not enough
100 is also not enough. Let's say 300 my god 500
Just let's let's do one thing. Let's do one thing. I open this with the live server. I pick it up
I
Use rem units since I haven't thought Kabir I cannot use that
Okay
So let's say 100 pixel
So box one is the right thing that I'm applying right yeah, this is a header then I'm saying this one
Margin top 200 pixel
And this is too much 150 pixel
And this is too much 150 pixel
So this is generally i'm applying randomly but what how you can prefer this one is like you can
Always go and select this link
And then you can go here and see this is the height of 164.8. Right if I go and give that same height
to box one
As a margin top
Right
Uh, and let's say this is a pixel
So you'll be able to see that it's having right thing then let's say I also give width as 100
percent
And I have to reduce it further
150 pixel or 155 pixel
Let's say somewhere around that place
So what you can do is like whenever you scroll it now that header will be fixed now
so
This is how you actually use it that container, but i'll give you the exact example
But this is how I thought I thought like I was expecting something like margin top
Is that you know basic example?
Okay
Let's going back to one more example guys that we want to build full full-fledged one
Is that let's say if we want to build something like nav bar
Nav bar dot html. Let's say we have nav bar
So what is the first thing that comes to your mind whenever you hear nav bar
What's the first thing that comes to your mind whenever you hear nav bar
All the menu items right guys if you go back to again flip cart
All the menu items right same thing like but what are the menu items that you have like this list of gross?
Let's say groceries mobile fashion
right
even
So how you can do this? Let's say
We have something like unordered list. Let's say I have something like unordered list inside that li
Let's say I have li
Inside that let's say I have something like anchor tag
Okay, and I'll list multiple items, let's say
default
I'll use it like home
And like basic things right
Like let's say a boat
Products
And let's say I have something like contacts
Okay
To make this something href pointing to right we always have to give something. So I'll give i'm giving something like hash
Uh, this doesn't lead to anywhere
so
Fine no
If you go and render this one, let's say if you go and render this one guys
To go and render this is how you expect. Uh, like you know nav bar like
Unordered list to work right generally. This is how unordered list work, right?
Right guys now so what i'll do is that let's say I have
A class called i'll call it as navigation bar
Navigation let's say I have a navigation
Okay, what I'll do is that i'll apply here all the flexbox properties that we have learned
Now what I'll do is that let's say I have a class so i'll select navigation
And I open the braces now, let's say first thing what we'll do is like we'll use display flex
What it will do is when I give display flex firstly
What it's supposed to do?
In align along the align along
The x-axis right which is my main axis, right? Let's say I apply flex now
Once I give this these are assigned now
Usually you see the menu on the right side, right? Usually you see the menu on the right side, isn't it?
Let's for the sake right for the sake i'll give uh, this as a row also
and
When you see on the right side if I move if I want all the items to move to the right side what I can do
What I can do if I want to move all the items to the right guys
Justify content
So justify content always plays around with the main axis now main axis is row so I can say that
flex end
Isn't it? This is what we wanted to do
now
here
now
here
Inside this navigation
Okay
now
Just think of let's say if we give a background here background color for this banner background color could be something like a
dark
Let's say dark
Let's say this darkly it doesn't look good, but that's fine. Let's say this is a background color that we gave
Or let's say
Let's say we have this khaki color as of now
right now
What would be the next thing guys? What would be the next thing to fix like what would we should like firstly?
Can we uh for the menu, right? We don't really see the dots coming up, right?
There shouldn't be dots, right?
The whatever you see in the unordered list these dots
right
If we can remove them
Yeah, so
Hemangi says least styles, right?
least style
I'll go and say say none
Once I remove that if you see the everything got cleared now now what we can do is what we have to do
Do
What we are supposed to do
We need a gap between all of the elements, right? Let's let's do something
Like for all the navigation and anchor type what's what type of selector is this guys? What type of selector is this?
Navigation and a what type of selector is this?
When I write down this way
Uh, that's fine class selector, but this kind of combination what we call it as this kind of combination
Descendant selector, right? Do you remember that descendant selector?
parent-child fine, but uh
Even if you go for children selector, it will be like a parent-child only but this is something comes in the descendant category
Okay
You can always say okay all you can also say parent-child
But this is something descendant category like all the descendants and the navigation will be applied least of property now for this anchor
Firstly
There's one property that I can use uh to remove underscore guys this we have already learned
How we can remove these underscores or like we can add top layer or bottom layer how we can do that guys?
Anyone remember? Yeah text decoration. Thank you
Let's say text decoration to the none
fine now also
What if I want to?
What if I want to make uh, let's say I color the changes here, let's say I make it look at white here
Okay, and basically I want to also add some padding
Let's say I give four pixel. Okay basic things
Uh, and let's say I use something like deep sky blue
Does it looking good or?
Fine this is looking good rgb color now
So a basic, uh make it black preview with color
This is fine. Uh
Now this look good right now. Let's see
I want to add one of the pseudo selector now what sort of buttons on one hover of button
There is something right happens right now on hover. I want to add some background color. How can I do that guys?
On hover
Right, I have to use pseudo selector hover, right? Let's say I go for the navigation
Again, I use descend selector. I go for the hover and I say that there should be something background color should be coming
No, I have to use some background color. Uh, let's say
It should be something around this one only
Uh, let's say I copy this
And
I select this one. I go to this one
Now if you see, uh on hover guys, there's a background color that is something is coming, right?
And one thing we have to make is like this navigation bar
height
To be a bit more but let let it be that way for now
but do you guys agree like
Uh, this is how your menu bar generally looks like
Uh basic menu bar
Let's make it more lighter
Okay
Okay
Now uh
Okay
Once this is done
Now comes the main rule guys till now we haven't used much of display properties display flex
We have used direction. We have justify content we have
but
When i'm reducing it
Is it reducing or is it happening same something like what how it should behave for the other mobile screens is something we have to decide
Like we have told that we this child children item will be aligned or we can play around with that
But what if we have to use only container properties and we have to say that
Uh, depending on this maybe we are changing the flex direction, right? If you go for the mobile, right mobile
Let's say I go for the mobile
If I go for the mobile the menu now if you see it converted into hamburger hamburger icon, right
Can you see this on flipkart? This is converted into hamburger
If I if I don't use it in mobile format all the items are available here itself
Do you guys see this so there's a difference in how you render the menu
So if you want to fix this sort of issue or address this kind of things
Then this should be aligned in a vertically, right?
This should align vertically now for that what we'll do is that fill apply something called as media query
How many of you have heard something called as media query earlier
Okay, let's let's go and explore what is media query. Okay firstly
media query
in css
so
I'll go for this one itself
Now what it says is that you have different types of media first what sort of medias you have
firstly
Whether it is printing or screen size or even audio. I believe I don't remember
There should be an audio also
Okay
But for the all the different preview modes, right if you want to add something conditional, how can you add conditional?
Let's say this is a syntax now. We say that at the rate media
like whether to apply
Only or not only and you have to select media type
Always, uh, you prefer screen, but I go with all okay at the rate media
All and then you have to select the feature
When I say media feature
What we exactly mean is that we have to write the condition. Let's say this is an example if you see
They are applying here at the rate media onto the screen
And if minimum width of the screen is 480 pixel
then apply
This particular css to the body
So firstly you have to define at the rate media and for the all screens and then you have to define condition
And this is like a if condition
Only if this condition meets then the all the css watch are defined inside would be applying
Is that clear guys is that point clear how this actually works
Right, so let's see let's say we apply some one css where we say that
Let's say
At the rate media now. I'll use that same thing. I'll use something like media all
and
Let's say I use something like max width
Okay, and I select something like let's say 600 pixel which is like ipad or less than ipad
Now inside this I have to write
Again a new list of css now whenever you have let's say a navigation
Imagine now what will happen what we have seen just now. Let's say we don't want to
Completely build that solution like
converted to hamburger like this hamburger button will come and then you will be able to
Click it or deal with it, right?
But what if we can do is like align all the elements vertically
To align all the items vertically what we have to do
To align this all the items vertically what we can do guys since this is a flexbox
By default for the navigation flexbox is applying
Flex direction column, right?
great
Let's say flex direction if I convert into column
Now if you see as i'm reducing it, it is converted into column if I increase it
It it will go into the end action
Now when i'm converting into columns
When i'm converting into column
What if we want to move the elements to the center?
What if we want to move the elements to the center?
I
Think of it guys
I would go with align items or justify content
This is columns
Okay, let's say I give align items center
Thank you
So if you see what we have done it whenever you align items now, well, let's say I also have something like border
For each of one
So that it looks like bit
One pixel solid
Black
It looks hard. I don't want to play around with this one, but
No
Also what we can do is that
Let's say whatever padding is there whatever padding is there
If I make it zero
Zero is not applying
Because we are applying to navigation for navigation. We didn't give any padding as such so we don't need it
Okay, fine
now
To the anchor tags, let's say to the anchor tags
What we can do what we can apply further?
What we can deal with this further guys?
Think of it
Now I was trying to add the border which was failing because I was adding to a navigation
But I want to add here into the anchor text, right?
Let's say I go and say that
I can give specific borders right like
Border top let's say I go for border top like i'm giving only the top like one pixel
Let's say solid
Black
Okay, now instead of black, let's say
I go for this one something like and also let's say we say something like border bottom
Say one pixel solid
Now
So looking all odd right isn't it if you are trying to apply
What if we gave some padding to each item then might be five pixel?
No, it doesn't work
rightly
Let's say we don't want to deal with this all this navigation
But this is how you generally move the items right now. What if there is some other thing?
Like let's say I also add one condition at the rate media
All and max width now, let's say max width is 800 pixel
Now I want to explain me the difference like how how these things are applied like when I say something like
When I say something like 600 max and there is 800 max both conditions are true
Let's say i'm having a screen size width of 700 pixel. Now, which one should apply guys?
Which one should apply let's say I have something like navigation and I say justify content
To the space around
Let's say I have screen width of 700
Consider screen width of 700 now, let's see this what's happening if you see
Whenever i'll show you here, let me render it where is this
This
If you see it here what will happen
Generally, we are having three types of media query three types of resolutions that we have written as of now
One thing is like diff by default
But if you see the dimensions here, this is the width that is acting if I reduce this width if you see
Something we came under 800
Now below whenever we are we are saying that below 800 maximum width whenever we are hitting below the 800 this justify
Content is applied
Right 801 will apply like if you see i'm reducing it further
The space like space is getting added to them if I reduce it further below 600
This this type of like anchor tag will come
Now this is how your nav bar works right with this like uh, like as you go for flexible patterns
Like your menu will come like will be in a different way for the bigger screens for the smaller screens it changes, right?
This was one of the example that I wanted to show you
Okay that how we can build a flexible nav bar
But I have some css written. Let's say I apply all of the css and see
Uh how this is changing
I had some predefined colors with me
Okay, I guess the all the padding and everything was not applying because I didn't add box sizing
Because of box sizing I was having issue earlier
Okay now uh what I just made it guys is uh
Same thing I've added same thing media all for max 800 width
And this is also same thing
but here
If you see
Uh, we don't need this
Nothing matters here margin zero
Padding zero
Right
Not needed
If I expand it again, it's the same way. It's the same behavior like if I expand further
That that will come one one direction
I've just enhanced that properties how they are looking like, you know, there's a division
And just like that css changes small css
But overall, I hope you got the basic idea like how you can build a flexible nav bar using display properties display flex properties
Guys if you understand this, can you give me thumbs up if we can go to some other example and build it one more?
So I have one more example guys like which you can which we can explore
let's say
I want to build like
Uh, one of the basic example right where you have carts when you have many carts like you see netflix one
Let's say carts dot html
Uh will build this step by step
Can you show the inline css?
Uh mobile view, okay, this is the mobile view
Uh minimum width so this is what we have applied
So just we have moved text item to center and we added padding guys and there's like, you know border that has been added
This is a border like top border top and bottom bottom
And on hover property anyways, this is coming because we have added background color
Same thing just that color differences. So can media queries be applied to images?
uh
Yeah, it should be it should be if you're applying for normal screens, you can be able to apply for all the things somewhere
We'll see that let's say we have a carts example we'll build this carts example
Let's say we'll build uh carts uh demo using flexbox
Like where you have a list of cards you want to show it how you can build it
now
Firstly, let's have something like a container
Our div is a normal container
Yeah
then for each card, right i'm using something like let's say this
Instead of div we'll go with a semantic tax like main
Then for each card, let's say I have something like a section or article
Which I go and use article
Okay
Now inside this article i'll have something like let's say image
Inside this i'll have something as src and inside image i'll have something like let's say
Uh content which i'll render here firstly what this image is talking about
and then
Uh description about that whole image and for description i'll use something like p tag
Okay
Like this is a basic guys. So what i've done i have picked one card
Let's say I also give a class as a card for you know, uh, so that we can
Feel that and let's say these are the least of uh diff
Pural form of cards
Okay, what i'm giving i'm giving an image under that image. I want to talk about what this image is talking about
Let's say if I give something
randomly
What we'll do is like to build this one. We'll go for unsplash
Unsplash website, let's say this is unsplash
Now let's say I select this one copy
Image address copy. Yeah link address
Okay
Okay, once we give this let's say what this image is talking about
Uh currently I say lorem 5 lorem 5 and let's say this is a lorem
20 okay
Uh
Show preview
So the image is not coming
So did I copy
as
Copy image address
Alt i'll add it but yeah, this is uh, I have I have to copy image address. So let's say alt
Since I am talking about
Say uh
Man staring at cave
Cave
Let's say this is what he's trying to do
Is staring at a cave
Then we'll add some of the css to this one to show and we'll build multiple cards using this card
Let's say I have a style
And let's say I have a container called cards inside this
Let's say I have I copy this one and create multiple items
Okay
Okay, I have address added four five items now if I use something like display flex first
Let's have this only one property for the cards and let's open this in the uh live server
Okay, if you see here
Multiple cards are added horizontally
Okay, we'll copy all the images one by one
But uh, i'm just want to build this firstly then we'll go and do all the things that we want to do
now
So one thing what we wanted to do guys is that if the full screen is covered right if you see here it is
Assuming complete screen and it it is horizontally scrollable, but we don't want to do do this
we want that hey if the
Screen width is consumed please take take the next image go next in the next line
Or go to the next line how we can do that?
Like come below the first image
There's a one property
We have learned that can help us like if you're i've told you that example, right?
On a notebook if you are starting from the left and you are ending it the right you're supposed to start on the next line
Flex wrap, right? Let's say if I use flex wrap as wrap
You see all the items are aligned in a vertically now, okay once we have gave direction now
And i'll say that hey, uh all the aligned items right to the stretch now stretch is something like consume full space like
Don't leave empty spaces. Uh, if you are having empty space take it full things. Okay
Uh, also i'll make this
default
styles, right
Margin zero
Adding zero
And box sizing as border box
Okay
Now let's say it came to the completely at the left end now what we'll do is that?
Uh, let's say by default we'll have
margin here
Margin of uh 10 pixel around each thing
Okay, fine. No
What I want to do is let's let's say now i'll go for the cards
Before that card there is something I have to fix this image size, right?
Let's say I go for card then I select image inside that
Now how can I what what I have to fix on this guys on this image I have to just fix the width and height, right?
Width and height, right?
But to fix only the height and width so i'll go and say that hey max height max width max width can be
100% of screen and
max height can be
Let's say 80% of the screen
So i'm giving in terms of percentages as of now so till now we have gave uh like pixels
Now what I did is like I just I've built such a way that hey if you
Uh, like i'm telling that what height it can take and maximum height and width just simple properties. Nothing much in that
Let's say this is left and right fine
top and bottom three pixel
Okay now
also, uh, let's say the kind like inside this card now inside this card I want to add
Uh, let's say firstly border
Border because to differentiate also one pixel solid
Then I can give something like let's say black or
This is something like uh showing, you know, a light line. Can you see this light line here a simple line, right?
That is what i'm using it currently this line as a border
But now to show a card as a card right to show a card as a card something this there's one property
which is called as
Uh, which which is used to show like a deviated one or which other than z-index
There is something like if you want to show there's a box shadow, right? Yeah
Uh, thank you for catching this
Box shadow now to giving box shadow again it you have to define shadow on the all the directions like four directions
Let's say i'm taking again two pixel two pixel two pixel
Right again two pixel all the four sides. I've added box shadow then I can also give the color
But I don't need a color. Let's say what type of shadow it is and for rgb. I select zero zero zero
Then there's a fourth property guys. What is the fourth property which used to deal with?
Opacity right and rgb whenever we are dealing with so that's like how transparent you want to deal with
So let's say I give 0.3 or 0.4 anything
Now do you see this like a image?
You know image which is coming lifted up in air like something like lifted up in there
You know, so box shadow is something like all the directions that you can decide then you can give the styles to it
Okay now
Once this we have add this border and this one then let's say
We give for each card
Let's say for each cards
Instead of okay for each card because these cards are attached, right? Let's say we give a margin top of
Let's say 15 pixel. Okay such that they are separated
Okay
once this is done now what we'll do is that
We'll make all of them like flex grow all the these are items, right? So flex grow
To be default like i'll give a default zero. Don't grow or don't shrink it keep it as it is
Okay, keep it as it is whatever we have do we have blur and direction
In shadow, yeah, we can do that. We can do that. We can do that open
I'll show it like how we can do that
But let's say next if you want to fix the size of a card
If you want to fix the size of a card
What is the one property that we can deal with?
Like whenever you are having screen speaker or size
We can deal with one of the property i've already thought you
Flex grow shrink and there's another order other than that one property. There's something called a flex basis, right?
Which sets the maximum?
width or height
Let's say I select flex basis and I say that this is like maximum of 200 pixel let's say
If you see whenever I give maximum height an image can take it automatically fixed all the things now
for me
If I am increasing the space, let's say
If it can accommodate multiple things like if I don't have flex wrap
It will come in all will come in one row or center line that I don't want it
Okay, and let's say I have
border
background color here
Let's say I don't need this
Okay
So what I have done is guys is that
I've added something like flex basis
Now if I remove flex basis all the images and everything is taking uh, you know this
Like taking whatever space it is having. Okay, let's say if I use this inspect tool
Uh, and I try to play around like all the other views. Let's say I increasing it
All things are working fine
But if I reduce it the still the size is like whatever it is defined we have defined it is taking that but
If I give maximum size, let's say flex space is 200
Which is like minimum you have to have this size
Then it is like it doesn't get affected much
But even if you are increasing further the size wouldn't increase it will come in only one row
I'm just trying to use all the properties that has been thought guys
Okay
now
Let's say
Now one thing what I'll do is like for this articles, right?
I have already selected images and content what we have to write. I'll copy that content actually
Let me take that
Because I also added a button that I wanted to show you
You
Give me a second
I'll copy that html
Let's say I minimize this one main content I replace with this one
Now if you see what I have done is like I have selected a different sort of images
And I have one button below that. Okay
now
Just nothing. Uh
Creative wise just those again those images itself
Uh, we have extra button here. So we'll style them. Okay the content and the button now
Let's say I have to style button now if you see the button is present inside
div
This particular text dot button now, let's say if I go and do this way
Dot text dot button
I
Can I can do all the css that I want to apply using again descendant selector?
Okay
Now let's say I say that a background color to be gray
Okay, I added background color to be gray for each element
And let's say
Uh, I also deal with border making them zero because there's an underline which we don't need it
Let's say I make it zero then
Also, let's make color as white
Padding I'll add it. I'll add it. Let's say padding we need padding for this box. Let's say 10 pixel
Okay
We added 10 pixel for this one and then we want to align them
align them into
center
Or let's say I can consume the whole space width of should be the hundred percent. Let's say
So the button will come here like here. Why?
so
now
Also for this text right text is not really greatly aligned
So what we'll do is that we'll add some padding to it around the box
Let's say card and I select text inside each card and I say that I'll give just a padding
on each side
Let's say on top and bottom. I don't need it. So I'll go with zero then I'll say that 0.4 pixel
Left and right not working this way. Let's say I give
Five pixels two pixel
That's not exactly
But let's say I play around with 10 pixel
then
10 pixel then let's say 10 pixel
Okay
Now
If I remove flex wrap it will be let's say item switch items if I comment this one
Uh doesn't matter
What i'm thinking is that if there is a space available if you see the uh, the next problem would be this space
If you see the space of between each card
Is not rightly assigned
Yeah border radius we can add right thanks somebody for a suggestion
Let's say I go and add here
Border radius for the cards. Let's say I give eight pixel
So that they look rotated
But if I give a space then it will look like that
Let's say if we go and fix this one
Uh giving we have margin top, uh, let's say I convert this into margin
Okay, now let's say instead of 15 pixel on the top let's say I have 10 pixel on the top
On the right side, let's say I have 5 pixel on the bottom again. Let's say I have 10 pixel then 5 pixel
This is looking better so let me
Go and update this one as
Uh, this is the one right under the card
10 pixel and 5 pixel, okay
Fine so there is a space between the cards exactly what we can see now
So, uh, whatever border radius I have added 8 pixel is not something visible. Let's say I make 15 pixel
Or 20
Nothing is applying. Let's say why it's not anything applying
Okay, I haven't I shouldn't apply for the whole container it should be for each card
Right
It should be for the each card that you apply
Instead of 20, let's reduce this as a 10 so that you have a rotated
card like borders which are
Like
Border radius
Now along with this
What do you think guys what what else we can uh, you know edit or like what what else we can make better
What do you guys think?
Let's say if you go for uh, you know this one, uh flexible layout
Uh, yeah, we can add button on hover
Hover
Let's say I select a button
Text
Button hover, uh, let's say background color to be changed to white say you can say
Can any color can you suggest any colors guys?
Okay
Yeah bottom should stick to the like like but i've given some padding right, uh, that's why it is coming out to be that way
If I give this that's fine, yeah background color is changing, but let's say uh, if I want to make
Top right bottom zero pixel
Than 10 pixel
Uh, no, this is changing the content of it
But let me go and fix this one i'll do this
Uh
You want me to stick this button below and because it's having some space
This is coming from card level, let's say firstly the top right bottom, let's say we make bottom zero pixel first
Now it is still like, you know, all other things are getting changed, uh, so
We can address many things here, okay all buttons should align horizontally right agree
So firstly you can also add, you know, too many styles to the pop button also, let's say
Uh border radius you can give it here, uh, which is eight pixel so that they look a bit curved then
You can always say uh position
How can you fix this guys
Fixed and let's say okay. This is coming out of whole container
right
bottom
All the all the buttons are coming below
So let's say, uh, how can you move it to the below?
Stick it to the bottom
Firstly how where the space is coming here?
The space is coming from here like wherever text is there
Okay
If I reduce this then it is completely taking it. I think it is already stick to bottom guys
It's just a padding that we are having around it, right?
so
No, no, it is already sticking to the bottom itself
It's just that whatever padding it is having it is consuming it for the each card
So there is something extra space also
But inside that text container only since we have that button or that css of text is generally applied here
Because that's how I have written
Our div is wrapped around the text container inside the text if you see
Uh card or text
I've applied multiple things to here. So
Let's keep it this way guys. Let's keep it this way
So I hope uh, you got to learn today related to flexbox a lot
Basic properties how we can use it and how can you relate with them? Right if you felt
Good, give me thumbs up seeing this one or you know building this along with me
I hope the basic knowledge right on flex properties. Uh, you can all refer to one of the link that i'll give you
Uh, I said i'll paste it in the notes itself. Let's say I go here
Uh links dot empty
This is only one major topic that we picked it up today class five
Uh flexbox
Okay
So refer to this link guys i'll also
Uh pin here
And there's one more site that I wanted to show you uh, it's something called as can I use
Can I use css
So this website guys actually css are applied on
Uh, all the different browsers, right you can always refer to this one. Let's say flexbox
If you go and search
It will give all the like uh browsers on which browsers you can apply this particular css styles
Okay
So also refer to this any property if not applying on any browser then you can refer to this one
Okay
Guys if these things are clear, uh, I would like to start the doubt session
Uh, the content part is completed for today
Uh, so i'll be starting out session if you feel free to drop whoever have understood the topic
Uh, and if someone is having doubts, please stick around we'll discuss some doubts whatever questions have been there, okay?
So i'll start the doubt session guys
So, thank you for attending today's session guys who are dropping but let me say uh, some bit some some all small sounds and first like
Okay, uh
like
Whatever things that I picked it like for flexbox, right?
You have to practice flexbox which is used for you know building layouts some with
Go and I would say directly right try to replicate anything like, uh
bigger website itself like how they are behaving in a
Responsive design pick it only small thing. Let's say you go and try to replicate any site like let's say you go
and
Go and replicate myndra itself
So
Like
If you see this will look like bit simple because these are like, uh, you build cards already
These are corazel corazel component how these are being built you can check on that
uh
I'm not getting a right click here. I think inspect is not allowed on this one
Uh their design but you can feel it
Yeah, econ sites are particularly power without function, right? Yeah, so they are simple
So try to build a part by part. Let's say these are
Menus, right now think of this
Firstly, uh, whoever they're in class think of this one like whenever i'm hovering over men
I'm able to see below this particular thing right this list of things how this can be built
How this thing can be built?
Yeah, how this can be built guys under menu or women you we are able to see this
And wherever i'm going right if you see it is taking the same space till that beauty part
It is taking the same space, but only content is changing
So think in that way like if you go for even for like this one, right if you see here
Yeah, they're coming multiple things like if you go and check one this one, right?
Uh, i'm selecting it but if you apply you will be able to see like let's say I
Select this one
This is a fashion but I think there are on click events, right?
There are no on click events present in this to verify like one click
So if you go and check this one, right?
There are no on click events present in this to verify like what all the elements that are rendering below because this is like, uh,
Not sure like how can I show that example how that works but try to explore them
Uh on hover. Yeah, they're setting that like display none to changing it and rendering it using position
Uh, but try to verify look into that. Okay, but i'll go with the questions
Go with the questions
I see
Assignment second question. Uh, let me uh check that just to let me open that
some which for you
Which assignment second question firstly like
I just want to know
Last last class is it last class?
Uh, let me go
What's our current batch name like I don't remember, uh, just a second
March 23 beginner fe right academy much bigger
Yeah, uh
So it's just a second guys i'm trying to open it
So it's css display
The box model question is it like I see there are too less many people who attempted it
Uh, how can I attempt it? Okay
Cute question a position in css or box model one
Okay, uh
Let's create an html that distribute demonstrates a user position property
Inside a container div the page should have display four boxes
Diffs with a box as a class and each unique class, uh, let's say show it on here itself
Okay
So let's say
I go to this
This was the question, right?
Okay, uh, you gave me the that one. Okay, i'll try to
Copy this one
HTML compiler
Okay
Uh some boxes one, two, three four, okay
But let's go to the question back
Each page should have four display work dips with the box as a class
With each unique item absolute relative, okay
Use css to set associated position attribute respectively given all the boxes unique
Top right bottom left values as well. Okay
So
Okay, there should be four dips generally with a box as a class
Uh
so
Yes here your class name is class one class two class three class four you have to address that one first
So the first line says it's like
Uh, you have to make a you know box as a css class here. They have also given a suggestion, right?
Yeah, so you can add a box here firstly
Then once you have this
Each with each with unique class, uh, then you have absolute relative classes to be attached to each one
Let's say relative
You tried it already it didn't work, but that's what it's suggesting, right?
Okay, let's see this let's see this
Okay
Okay, you have four things now you mentioned it
Now a class container, which is not necessary because if they haven't mentioned it
Okay
Just do what they mention it
Use css to set associated position attribute respectively. Okay
Now
You
How can I attempt this problem is there any way that I can attempt this problem
I'm not sure if I can attempt this problem submit but okay paste the code I can submit. Okay
So whatever by default you are having right let's say your box firstly class box then
Uh, you have all the css different css
so
Firstly your dot absolute
Will have position absolute
Let's say then you have relative you'll have position relative
Then you have fixed you will have position fixed
Then you have something called static
So position static
Okay
Okay, and what is their suggesting?
And give all boxes unique top right left bottom values, okay, let's say I give top bottom
Top zero bottom
As zero
Left as zero
They're basically not asking you to build any layout. They're just asking you to assign a list of values
Yeah, which are unique
Just like one two and three and let's say, okay, let's keep it one
One
Similarly you will have the other things also
Once you have this then let's say remove all of this
Okay, and let's say we make border box sizing as border box
Okay
And
Once we have this then
I don't miss this wrapper
Okay, all that items are aligned then let's say I have a css box
Then i'll say let's say
A particular height of 50 pixel into width of 50 pixel
And let's say background color
Okay
Okay
Oh anything else in that question guys got the issue
Okay, uh, i'll try look I have made mistake my box absolute
Is that working guys like is it that issue solved or I was like solving one way
Can you try this this should work?
Okay
Let me know if all the test cases are passing or having still any issues because
Doesn't seem to have any thing like assets to build isn't it like should have four boxes
dips with the boxes a class and
Each with a unique class absolute relative use css
To set associated position with reds respectively and give all the unit boxes
Top right left bottom values as well
Try it some with if it is working if not, let me know there's anything else guys if you want me to address
So how dsa helpful in front end dev, okay open the uh
Firstly a dsa is helpful first because it's a
Like when you learn dsa, what do you think like what like yeah, thanks that's working fine
Uh, so when you're learning dsa, right it's like, you know, you are trying to learn problem solving firstly
That's something that comes to your mind right could be any language or could be anything
That's you are trying to build the intuition like what happening now if you go for javascript, that is also a programming language
We will have n number of issues to solve currently we are dealing only with the layout and things
But javascript has so many things that will also go for the back end right in back end you'll write
The logics that all the things dsa you have learned in a way you will be applying those learnings in the back end more
But when it comes to front end
The scope of problem solving would be less because the scope of problems in the front end would be more of a design like
How you are making uh using csn html in the right way
Because
moreover
If you are writing logics on a front end or in any project you are forced to write many logics on front end
then that's a bad design practice because
Clients are supposed to be light
And more business logic is supposed to be on the server side
Okay, if you go for specifically front end interviews, right specific front end interviews the dsa, uh, I mean
The interviews if you have dsa interviews, those are going supposed to be easier
Medium not going to be hard that I can say specifically like if someone comes to me
Like with a front end, uh, no role or front end interview
I wouldn't be testing them on a problem solving, but I would give them a layout. Hey, can you build this layout for me?
Right, of course backend developer cannot do it for them. We'll test this
For our lld itself is based on uh design
Like how can you build the components?
We'll come to that
Okay
Uh guys anything else do you have anything else? Okay
Yeah, thank you pendra
so
I'll upload the notes and uh the site that i've told you right, uh, there's something that I uploaded css tricks one
Uh flexbox, please go through this one, right all the things
Uh, i'll also refer for the grid also from here only because they have given a right
Where like how you can feel it like flex direction how they are working in this is the row reverse row reverse
Column column reverse the exact content also
If you want to revise you can refer to our code or else you can come to this one. It's a 10 minutes read
Uh spend at least three to four days on this like uh revising through it like three to four times
You will be clear because all the properties are I've already told you applied only on two things
Which is container and children or container and items on container. There are five on children
There are three properties if you learn how to use them. It's good enough. Then there is something called
Flex froggy
Yeah, flex froggy this one
You can use this to learn flexbox I would suggest everyone to go through this one as a practice
I use this, uh, generally, uh to revise my
Concepts let's say one of the thing is like, uh, it says that I welcome to all this stuff
And I want to move this particular person to this end
Let's say how we can do that
So it will say that justify content to the flex end because we are not giving flex direction by default
It is zero now. Once you give this value and you will semicolon you click next you will go to the next level
Next problem. Okay, so you keep solving these things like now you have to just do it
Like justify content to the center
So this game will actually help you to solve all the levels
Okay
Now this is like space in between or space. Sorry space around so this will help you try to play around with this game guys
Okay, uh then
Okay, so if everything is clear, can we close the session today?
Thank you, maneshwara
So, hope you go through it enhance whatever you want to enhance on the existing things that you have
Uh, i'll try to come up with assignments if you need personal assignments like a problem statement
Uh where you can solve it and push the github repo
The github repo i've asked people to you know, add github, uh get
Recordings to you also on portfolio project recording if available. I'll check with them. Okay, but get i've told them
So that should be available next week most probably
Okay
So the question thank you, let's see you on saturday
Where we learn css grid, uh much more advanced layout structure, which will be more interesting
There are too many properties in that we have seen only eight to nine properties here, but that's two direction layout
So let's learn that let's explore that
Okay
So see you on saturday. Hope you have a great good night. Have good sleep solve all the assignments
Okay, if you're not able to solve again try to connect with me. I'll try to help you out whatever way I can
Okay
So love I said have a good night
You
