you
you
Hi all good evening
I'm I audible and visible guys any thumbs up reactions
Thank you. Yes. Thank you. So let me share my screen
To let me know if you can see the screen good evening Tejal
Just to let me know if you can see the screen share too
Good so let me open the code base
This is something that I was building an open source project for myself
Give me a second
Good evening, I appreciate good evening some bit
So
Guys I've seen there's a drop in you know assignment problem solving percentages
Are you able to catch up or having any challenges that you want to point out or do I need to take it anything from?
my side
Just want to know if there's any reason that you know this or you are able to do it till now easy in JS, okay
So I hope everyone is able to catch up, right
Great I wish it
Right. Great. So whatever responses I'm getting I believe from that part of you, you know, this
Assignments, whatever there are those are comparatively easy, isn't it?
So let's start with a screen share of iPad
Uh
And the second thing guys
I hope all the topics that we have covered till now in the js are those are clear
Uh related to maybe introduction of variables data types and then harvesting concept
Then we understood how behind the scenes things work. We also learned bit of debugging in, you know browser
Meanwhile when I was trying to show that
So I hope all those concepts are clear, right?
Whatever we have covered till now difference between let and
Const
Great, uh, can anyone help me drop me a message in whatsapp group for the people to join?
So i'll start a two minutes timer meanwhile because I want to start at nine or five
So
Let's keep it this way
So guys, uh, if you thank you manesh
So if you if you see, uh the topics that we have discussed till now when we introduced it
a series listening to
Okay
How should I stop this
Okay, fine
Great. So till now if we have learned like we have introduced what js is and how you know the web has
You know came into the picture of two days and what could be the future?
And how they how you know web 1 web 2.0 and 3.2 got evolved then
Uh, we have started with something like variables
right
Then we have understood something called as data types
You've seen some examples on this
Right different data types we have explored iris and objects in depth and their respective functions
Then we have picked one of the core concept of javascript which is called hoisting
right
and we have understood hoisting with respect to var and
latent const
So for both hoisting exists, but latent const behave differently. There's a better error handling
The only reason is there's something like latent const are initialized in temporal
Dead zone
The whatever hoisting is happening. It's happening here in temporal dead zone and then it behaves
In a single way
Right. So I hope this concept still now whatever we have discussed if those things are clear
Can you give me thumbs up so that we can get started with today's content?
Great guys, great. So
I want to talk about something that I left in last class
Is that
If you see in the class 9, uh when I was discussing about objects
I think in the here in the reference data, right? So I have used something called a spread operator. Let's get started with this one
Okay
So in javascript, right if you pick js
Inside this this three dots
Is a common thing and this can be used in a two parts. Okay
Sometimes it is called as rest operator. Sometimes this is called a spread operate
Okay, we'll give you an examples of them in depth one by one
but
Uh, like both these things are called in a you know with the different names depending on the use cases we have
Spread is something which is trying to spread like if you see on a toast you try to spread a
Butter or any jam that you have right? That's the same thing the same way
It spreads all the items in it
All items in it
Okay, so which items it will be able to spread something which are i-triple
Now what are the i-triple data types that we know anyone
What all i-triple data types that we know on which you can apply for loop when I say i-triple
I mean to say that on which type of data types we can apply I like this one array, right?
And the other thing guys
Okay in js you can also iterate for objects
I'll show you a loop like how you can do it and maps
If maps are like a data structure a bit advanced data structure when compared to js
Okay, but i'll come to that. So basic things are like whenever you are trying to do something like let's say there's an array
of items
one two three
Then you are let's say you are declaring an array one
Then you want to let's say if you want to use this one reuse the same elements which are there
Then you can do dot triple dot and spread all the items present in an array
So since this is an i-triple item i-triple data type on those things whenever you are using dot triple dots
So and you are trying to spread all the items in it in those case use cases. We call this as spread operator
Is that point clear guys?
Like what is spread operator in general?
So
This is the same thing that I did here in the last class if you see
I have told that there is an object
Something called as a first name and last name
so the object can be you know, iterated using a
let's say
key
in object
So all for all the keys, let's say if you iterate through it
You will be able to get all the key and you can get a respective value for that one
So
I'll try to repeat this case whatever i'm covering. I'll show the examples till now. I'm just getting
Covering up theory so do not worry. Okay
Nothing I searched something
so
What I was talking about is I was talking about something called a triple dot operator that you see in js commonly
And it's called with two different names. One is one time they call rest and sometimes they call spread. I was talking about
When do you call it as a spread?
Okay
When do you call it as a spread now spread operator?
You call that a particular three dots as spread operator only on like when you are trying to
You know spread all the items in a i-tribbles. No, what are the i-tribbles exist on top level are like array and object
No when I used in this example
So I mean to say that i'm using like a spread operator i'm spreading all the items present in an object
I hope this example and this thing is cleared guys to everyone
I've really figured the thing that I had just introduced till now right now. Let's see some of the examples. Okay
Let's see some of the examples. I'll create a class 10
Folder class 10
So let's name it as rest versus spread
Spread
Dot js, okay. So what I did here is let's say I have something like const array
uh, and I have one two three, uh, and let's say I
Go by four comma I click a tab
So I have this an array since it's an i-tribble. Now, what if I let's say I have an array one
Now let's say I have some elements like let's say 12 13
14
and remaining items
What if I want to build a new array?
Including this two like let's say I want to update such that array one will have all the elements from one to twenty
So one of the ways that you can build a new array called
Uh array two and initialize is empty and then you can run a for loop over it
I mean
says that you can you know, you keep on pushing the items like
Let's say you write a for loop
let
I equal to zero then array dot length i plus plus
And then you can do something like array dot push array to dot push and
Right the same syntax you can do for array one also and
Let's say this is how we are supposed to build it, right?
So this is how we can merge two arrays into the one isn't it? Like if you want to build a new array or
Which is having all the elements from one to twenty and this is just an example where you have to merge two things, right?
But the what js provides you is like, let's say you are building in a new array like array two
As here we have an example
Let's take an array three one of the simple ways of doing it is like let's say I want to spread all the items since
I'm pushing all the items in it. I'm not picking one by one all I mean specific items
What I can do is like I can just spread this three dots
I can say that hey take all the elements from array
And also take all the elements from the array one and put it in array three
So both the in a both use cases if I try to do console dot log, let's say
Array two
And console dot log
Array three
Now if you do this
Let's see the example if it is working in both, you know, both are satisfied
node rest versus spread
Dot js
If you see in the both the examples i'm able to get the all the elements
So do you find it easy like when you want to merge two things or like if you want to build it something
You need not to iterate and push it all the items. You can actually spread all the items whatever you need it
So I hope the basic idea of spread operator is clear to you all isn't it?
Okay
now
What i'll talk about is something like a called as a rest operator. So one of the use case, right?
Whenever you see the rest
So what is the general meaning of rest?
Let's say can I say is the rest of items
Rest of items in an array or an object or anything
Can we like this is just a rest when I say i'm just trying to get the meaning of it
Like whenever I say rest rest operator, it's something getting a rest of items
Now how this use case works is let me give you an example. Let's say you have a function called my bio
Okay, and in my bio
Let's say you have something like first name and last name as a mandatory fields
Then you don't know what all things are there
So let's say
rest bio
So whatever user provides it you will fulfill it but these are the two mandatory things and you don't know what are the
Exist like parameters like you need to accept in the bio and one thing you can do here is that let's say
You can return an object
Which is saying first name
then last name
Then you can say rest of items
now
Okay. Now let's say how you can do how can you call this? It's a dynamic function
Now, let's say I have a my bio building it and I call it as a them then I can give it as you know
Sharma
Then I can give something like a contact number
Like let's say some random
Then I can give city like hydropad. So if you see what what's going to happen here?
Now I say that whatever the first argument that i'm passing in the my bio is first name
And the second thing is called as last name
And then after these fields are not mandatory as many fields you want you can pass it down
So it says that hey, can you get me the rest of all the items that user is passing?
Accept it and then i'll use it in the future discuss depending on the whatever you write in function board
So in these use cases
Whenever you have something like a get me the all the rest of items other than this first name and last name
Then you call this particular three dot and that particular key as a rest operator
Is this clear guys when we say when we call it why we call it as a rest operator
Uh, let me try to rerun this file
Uh, okay, I didn't console log it. Let's do something like console dot log
Okay
So let me clear this
Yeah, if you see i'm getting all the things like when i'm getting the rest operator
I I don't know the exact param like you know the items keys what it should be
So i'm getting a zero and one with the default
How the objects prepares it right the more important use cases of rest operator comes when you use something called as
destructuring
Has anyone came across this keyword destructure
Here does anyone know have heard this word destructure
Okay, see one
Yeah, uh by default right when you don't provide any key, uh for the object
Some bit so it starts from zero like zeroth key and first key then it goes on iterating whatever things you provide in an object
Okay
Okay, now so let's let's see understand this what's destructure is now
Whenever I say i'm destructuring a building. What is it?
Converting a hole into variables
Yeah now
But let's let's take this an example in terms of building. Let's say if I say have anyone in noida
Have anyone been into noida city?
Okay
Right there was a building beside my college imity
Uh, there's a huge building like uh, I don't remember the tower which was in circular shape
So they destructured they bombed that whole building like more than 30 floors
Right breaking down into small pieces like destructuring like if you constructing it
You are trying to build one onto the together, but when you're destructuring you're trying to pull out into the pieces
Okay, like uh, you can say
Breaking down
breaking down into
smaller
Parts so this is a generic meaning but now let's say how this works. Okay deal demolishing right now, let's say
One of the first programming question that you might have come across in terms of dsa or any problem solving
Uh, you might have thought of like doing something like a swap of our two numbers
Have you got across that?
Swap of our two numbers
Right. Let's say I have const a equal to 10
And const b equal to 20 so they might ask you to you know, swap the numbers, isn't it?
So let's say if I want to destructure what I can do here is that let's say I have a const array
Uh an empty array
So
Don't go into something like i'm using an extra space or those things, but that's that's fine
I'm just trying to explain for extra, you know
Way of doing it. So let's say I use array four
dot push a then I can do something like
Same array four dot push b the time i'm pushing this both the elements a and b
now this will be like
array four will be something like
10 and 20 isn't it?
So this is how the array
Will be right. Yeah. Now if I want to swap it something that I can do here is that I can declare an array on the left
Okay, I can declare an array on the left then I can say
b comma a
Now, let's see what happens if I do console dot log
If I do console dot log
B console dot log a
Okay
Let me see this
Let declare this as a let because you are trying to re change there, you know the definition of it
I'll clear it. I'll comment this
Whatever I am having it
All the console logs, let's say I comment this I comment this
I try to read on this
Now I fail to get this one, uh, it's a spelling mistake, I guess yeah c 1 s t
No
Okay
Now let's say what I'm doing here is that
Let's see this firstly whether we were able to swap it
Okay
Now if you see I was trying to print a b value here. Let's say I say b
And this is a string
And this is something like a
So
If you see something that I got as converted b equal to 10 and equal to 20
So one of the easiest ways right if you can comment this part also
I was trying to just explain you things like let's say I have something like 10 comma 20
So the process of doing this one, right the process of doing this one
Like what I or what I was just doing is like I was trying to change the way like
Let's say if you have an array of items
Uh
Another example, this is like just a swapping of elements that how you can you how can you do that?
Let's say you have something like one, two, three, four five. This is enough. Uh, and
Let's say you building a new
Array six
Let's say you are doing something like can you get me an a b?
c and then let's say all the e
Me from arr5
So i'm here i'm trying to use you
You in elements like f and g and give me all the other elements like three four five in e
Let's see this if this is working
Let's see, uh, my audible i'm audible
Uh
So
Give me a second my screen share stopped, right, isn't it?
Let me switch to the net different network base
Uh, i'm can you see me guys
I
Switched off my you know video
But can you see me now
Is it fine?
Now working fine, right now
Screenshare is working. Everything is fine now
Okay, cool
great, so
Uh guys what I was talking about is that I constructed a new array called array five one, two, three, four five elements
And I created a new array this way
Then I was trying to destructure like destructure is breaking this array fine into multiple paths
Okay, then
Yeah, i'm trying to re-explain up. You know, okay
I'm trying to re-explain it
So what I was doing is that I was trying to destructure this array fine into multiple parts such that I say that
Gave me first two elements in f and g variable and all the remaining
Rest operator gave me all the rest of elements in e key
Okay, let's e variable. Let's say if I execute this one if you see what's the output here?
I got one and two for the f and g
Then I got e as all the other other items
Is this clear like how this rest operator is working?
Like i'm just talking in terms of rest operator for destructuring i'll come to that step by step
Yeah, in general can you get me all the rest of items it just says that
Any iterable let's say if you when if you have an object, let's say I have an object
uh
Let's say let's build an object same thing as a first name john
Let's say you have a last name do then let's say you have something like
phone number
Okay
Okay
and
Let's say you can do something here is that let's say i'm getting the first i'm getting a name
and
Uh, let's say whenever you destructure an object you should destructure in terms of object. Let's say you're getting a name then you say that
Uh, you actually should get that particular key only you only then you can you will be able to get it
Let's say less lost items
Object other items
Okay, so now let's see if I try to do a console log what i'm able to get it here
Object other items
If I try to re-execute it now if you see
If I particularly picked one particular key, right?
For while destructuring I say that hey, please break that particular room out of an this one
So i'm also parallelly expressing explaining what destructuring is combining with rest operator
So when I use rest operator other than last key last name this particular key i've got the first name and phone number here
Parallelly, I also try to destructure this one such that I can give me that last name
So that if I want last name anywhere, I can use this way
Is this example clear guys like how destructuring and rest operator is working?
combination
Fing okay, cool
So guys what I did here is that I created a new array called array phi
And I had items from one to three four five
Now I want to destructure them. Okay such that i'll get i'll use this first two elements
Like let's say if I use fing then i'm saying that can you give me the first element and second element of this array?
Then pack all the rest of items
into this e variable
So when i'm trying to do console log here if you see for the
F and g i'm getting like one and two for the e i'm getting all the three all the three
three four five
Is this clear guys now I hope like a rest versus spread operator and then destructuring on a top level is clear because
This concept will will be keep on using it now and when when we
Going we will reuse it again again. I will keep rebrushing this one. Okay
Yeah, all the things will be stored in an array because you're trying to destructure an array
So it will come in an array if you see object other items when i'm trying to destructure i'm getting an object
Is that clear somebody
So great guys, I hope if we are clear can we move ahead with the next topic
Great
So if you have any doubts do let me know any name is fine
Yeah, any name is fine. Even uh, let's say you can give something like alias names also
Let's say I gave this as a name
Uh, and I can print this name here if you want to do it
That's also possible
If you see for the name also when i'm trying to do console log
uh
Like I i'm not supposed to give use this particular way like a name constraint
So since it stays deprecated but I can give any alias names to the properties whatever I have
Destructuring hemangi when i'll use react right in each file i'll be using this concept again and again destructuring
I'll show you many of the examples
Like I introduce this topic so that once I start right when i'm trying to do this one
Like if you remember in last class, I did this something called
Spread operator now you will be able to see in future like when i'm destructuring how I can do it. Okay
So you go for any react component something that you receive props you destructure the props first
So if I tell it on a top level, but i'll give you many more examples in real time when we keep on doing the projects. Okay
so
Let's move ahead guys
So the second topic that we have to pick it up today is something called as
from the functional
programming point of view
uh now let's say
What are the types of programming that you might have?
here heard or
You know seen those
Uh
What type of different types of programming styles that you might have heard of
Uh guys, uh programming styles, right? Uh, some people say oops
And functional
And procedural
Right this type of programming languages you might have heard isn't it
Guys, can you give me thumbs up if you have heard this these are the principles
No, this is the way of writing code or getting your work done. I've been
It's a different way of writing your building projects you can follow any of this
Your building projects you can follow any of this, uh, you know, yeah, you can say the principles also, but
This is a you know, different language supports different sort of things
Okay
But now if you see any any example for oops, which language does oops use like any examples, which language you have seen oops more
utilized
java
And any other language case other than java
python
And any other c++ more right now when it comes to procedural
I'll come to javascript
And comes to procedural sequel, okay and
One of the first book that you might have studied in computer science if if you are from computer science background or any other engineering background
You
See right have you got
Went across this book called let us see by kushvan connect
In libraries or anywhere that you've been if you remember in your college
right, so
That's so what happens in procedural language like yeah if I came in top level, right?
I'll just try to explain what's happening in the in in these three types of you know
A paradigm
Okay
I agree. I didn't like c2. So what happens here is that in c most of the things are, you know top to down
top to bottom
Level of execution
Right c executes from top to bottom and those are the procedures like from one by one procedure it will execute that's how
C used to when it comes to java
This works on all the like object-oriented programming concepts, which are like inheritance
And all this thing firstly inheritance and everything revolves around something like class and object once you know them
Then you can apply principles like
inheritance then abstraction
Then you have something like polymorphism
What is the last thing guys
Encapsulation
Right, so these are the things that generally an object-oriented programming looks like isn't it?
Now
So what happens to this function of programming language is that javascript?
Is actually a functional programming language, okay, but this also
Yeah
But it's a more of a procedural
Specific abhishek like how that is executed. I mean to talk about that
On a top level i'm trying to talk about this one, but nothing much in depth as of now
Because i'm particularly focusing on what's functional programming language as of now
Okay
so
Javascript is completely functional programming language
now
How like you know everything that you write everything that you write in javascript will be
Around everything is like around the functions like you write down all the functions and then only you do it
You cannot write down anything like variable and then you type on you write the arithmetic operations and keep on writing those like top to bottom
So this is like function if you do if you even define the function below above you can reuse them as per your use
so javascript also
supports
Object-oriented
programming
but
How does it do it will explore in the future classes when I teach object-oriented programming?
But behind the scenes
Okay
It's functional programming
Okay behind the scenes it's completely a functional programming
So just keep this is just a overview like the different types of you know
What type of paradigm paradigm we follow and what are the existing things that have been done?
But let's not explore the definitions and what's going in depth but
You have to come back to the one concept called callbacks
Have anyone heard about word callback
Callback
No
When I say
If I say you can you call me back later, what do you exactly mean that
If I say that someone is calling me i'll say that can you call me back later now that person other person will decide right
Uh that when he'll call me back
I'm giving him
Yeah, uh, but let's talk it in real, you know real time examples guys firstly not going into javascript as of now
But think of it if you're on a phone call and if you're saying that someone
Yeah contact later like if you say as for as himang is himang you suggest like wait for now, but contact later
Now if you say that when i'm saying that hey you call me back later. Now that person decides right you're giving a control to that person
To call you back whenever after some time, but you are not specifying like can you call me back later at this particular time?
Okay, when you say just call back it's it's it's his responsibility to call you back whenever he needs isn't it
At least that level definition like you remember call me back later
Okay now
Let's understand this one in terms of you know javascript now. Let's take that example by example
Let's say I have a function call
Print
First name so i'm taking really simple examples guys, uh, which will help you to understand concepts one by one
Okay, let's say i'm trying to do something like console.log name
And I say that i'll also try to print this again
as a last name
And let's say I try to do something like console.log
And I say that print first name dot inside that uh, let's say I pick it up
Himagi
Then I can say print last name as
power
Okay
now
Let's try to first execute and verify this one if this is working fine
Verify this one if this is working fine
Clear ls
uh node
Call back
Hof dot js now when I execute so first thing i'm getting is like i'm getting this output himangi power. That's fine
But here ignore this undefined undefined. We'll talk about that why it is coming and when it's use case
What is the use case of this one?
now
Do you say this function both functions are like
This is there's something common like
Do you really need these two functions?
To do some activity which is like just printing it
Isn't it duplicating?
code
Guys, uh, it's it's just printing that name right console log nothing else it's doing
Right, so if you want to so it's what's what's principle breaking what's oh have anyone heard of this something called dry?
Have anyone heard of this something called dry?
Have anyone heard this something called dry?
Can't see it properly, uh
Abhinav can you rejoin the class?
Okay
Is anyone else facing net internet, uh, okay great so dry stands for something like don't we use it
Don't try to repeat I mean if I exactly term this one don't repeat yourself
Abhinav
So if you see this is breaking some of the design principles such that we are saying that
Uh, we are repeating that same logic right functional body same right at least names are different
But this particular body both things are same, isn't it?
Is that clear like uh what this principle is talking like don't repeat yourself so it is asking us to fix this issue
Now, how can we fix this issue?
Let's say this one of the way that you can do
Okay, one of the way that you can do
So what I'll do is that let's say
One of the basic thing that I can do is like let's say I have some
function
I can say print
Full name
and
What I can do here is that let's say I have
name
And then have something like callback function
I'll come back to what's callback function is
Now what I'll do here is that I'll just return here this callback function
Passing name into it
Now let's decide what this callback function will do
Now let's say I say this callback function will take the name and try to print the name
And try to print the name
Now how do you exactly execute the both the things now if I say console dot log
Okay, I say print full name inside that I can pass let's say hey monkey
Also, I can give something like callback function
And similarly I can again say this logic
Power
Now do you see this case what I was trying to just do is that I'm changing now if you see
The body is different
I am
Something what I'm doing here is that when I'm passing inside when I'm calling this function
I'm passing a function which is declared now in last class. We have understood that
Functions in javascript as called as first-class citizens reason behind it
It can be used as method variables expression. It can accept functions. It can return function
Now if you see I'm just re-executing that statement. So I'm passing a function and it is executing that function and returning it
Okay, now let's see how this is working if I try to
Re-execute this one
Still I'm getting hey monkey power. Is this at least clear like how I'm getting output?
Is this clear how I'm getting output
Yes, is this clear how I'm getting output
Okay now
Now let's say what is callback? Okay. So let's say whenever I'm saying that on a phone call
Hey call me back later. So I'm saying that this is let's say a person b
Uh, give me a second. Let's say this is a person b and this is something like a
okay
Now let's say
Whenever you are trying to print this one print full name you are
Passing a callback function, but you are not saying anything to this print full name when you're calling it
Saying that hey call me back at particular time. You're not passing any say saying anything
But this function inside this its body
It will execute whenever it needs so whenever I are using something like a
You're saying that can you call me back later?
So whenever this particular thing is being used it says to a particular function in which it is being passed
Can you call me back later? Like can you call me later like something like
Uh, I I hope you are able to relate this that a saying that call me later
And this person is calling it later whenever it can use it in the body
Why undefined if I'll come to that, okay if I execute this in the browser I won't get that
Okay, but now callbacks are those functions a callback function is those functions which are passed inside a function
Okay, whenever you are passing any function as a argument into any other function
Those functions are called as callback functions because those will be called
Inside those functions at any of any time we don't have any control over it when we are passing into it
Whatever function body is defined in it will move it will behave and execute according to that
Is that point clear guys like how what is callback?
Like let me give you a definition
Yeah, uh, let me give you an exact definition if you go through it
Like let's say I copy this and I put it here let's read it through now what it says is that
A callback function is a function passed into another function as an argument now here
We are passing a function as an argument into this function. Okay
and
Which is invoked inside the outer function to complete some sort of action
So this function will be invoked out out the outer function to do some action
So I hope it doesn't mean really anything great guys
It's just a bookish definition
But what I exactly mean by callback is whenever you are passing a function inside any other function
It's just that is called as a callback. It's because you're giving that power to that other function
Hey, you can call me back anytime that you want or behave
You use me as you want it
Guys are you able to relate with what callback is?
Uh, where are we gonna use this thing? Okay, i'll come to that. Okay. This is like one of the core concept
Really useful concept. Let me do one thing. Uh
Let me do one thing say I use
Uh
You know, I can show you the debugging in the ps code also what you can do is like you can click on this button
And you can open this javascript terminal, uh, and it is pointing here. Let's move to that particular thing
CD classes
Ls cd javascript
Ls
CD
Class 10
And this node uh callback
Hof dot gs
Now if you see
These are both functions. Let's understand flow by flow guys step by step
You can see a call stack on the left. It is executing this particular step. Uh, let me close this watch
I don't need this
Now if you see so firstly i am executing this print full name
Then it will go inside this print full name. Now if I go inside this print full name
If you see a callback function is holding this function
This particular function, right?
Print full name is added on the stack here
then
If I re-execute this one, then if you see on a new execution context for the callback is created
and this callback
Is getting something called as a name attribute called hey monkey
So in order to avoid something called a dry principle
like in order to use like
In order to avoid duplication of code what we have done done it here is that
We pass whatever common use case would be there. We have written a function
We gave this power to you know, print full name and we'll print it whatever it you want to do it
Okay
Is this example clear guys how this is working step by step?
So it's it's nothing but whenever you pass a function inside any other function
That which function is being passed inside is called as a callback function. Just remember that simple definition
I was just trying to make it complicated because I want to explain you how this will be executed
You know step by step
But the basic definition is in whenever in arguments if you are passing any function
Like let's say this is a function or any other function if you are passing it that particular function will be called as callback because
That will be called back
Inside this function at any random time depending upon how this is defined
So I hope no doubts guys in this case
Hey, this undefined undefined
like
Let me see where i'm getting it. How i'm getting it
Not exactly sure because i'm not printing something undefined here if you see
The name is available. Everything is available, but we'll see this
Okay
I'll come to that but is the concept of the function is the concept of the function is the concept of the function is the concept of the function
Come to that but is the concept of callback is clear firstly
Right now now i'll explain one more thing guys one more definition, let's say
I'll come to call something called hof
Now hof stands for something called as high
order
function
Or you can say higher order function
Okay
Now what hof is
It says that let me copy this definition that i have written
Now if you
Read this definition any function that takes in a function or returns one out is a higher order function
So it says that any function that takes in a function like it means when it says that takes in a function
This is this particular printful name is taking a function in it, right?
So can I say printful name is a higher order function?
Right, let's say I change this uh print name instead of callback
I give this
And let's say I change this
Uh print name instead of callback
I give this here
Right now so here in this example if you see print full name is an higher order function
So
Reason it's taking accepting a function inside it as a parameter
and print name
Is a callback function
Because that is being passed into a function
And that function function will decide when to execute this one
Is that clear guys what callback and higher order function is with small example i've tried to explain you this one
So this both things are allowing us to this combination is allowing us to you know, avoid something called as dry repeating ourselves
Okay
so
Any doubts guys still no any doubts?
Okay
Not outside, okay, let's let's go
Moving ahead with the one, uh, you know small simple dsa problem for you all
So, please help me out guys to you know address this problem
uh
Let's say I have something like uh, uh my radius array
Okay
Inside that i've given us different radiuses, okay
Let's say I have this radius seven
two five two three five six seven eight and this radiuses are of
Let's say radius of different circles
Okay now i'm I want to
find
For each circle
Three things what are those three things that I want to find area then circumference
And diameter how would you write a logic?
Is this question clear guys three functions
Good now, let's say I try to write function called calculate
Area I am receiving a radius here
In it now what could be the
What could be the
Formula for this one. Let's say I pass on whole radius array inside this one
So one of the ways like let's say area of a result area. I can say that this is something like a result area
And you have an array then you iterate through the loop
Then you iterate through the loop
Right
So you have a result area dot of i equal to
So i'll leave that mathematical equation as of now and i'll say that fit on result area
So
So it says 2 pi r is everyone agreeing guys it's 2 pi r for area
Yes, just think of it what is the formula for area of circle
Pi r square. No, what is the value of pi?
Value of pi
3.14 I said 3.14 into
My radius array of I
Into my radius array of I
This is it right this is how you will be able to calculate
So let's say instead of putting here as I index I do something like push
Because here I want to push it each item into an array
This is what a function looks like
Right calculate area similarly what we would do is like we'll create another function here
And it does the only thing difference here is that formula now what would be the formula
Let's say I do this result I just make it result instead of result area
Uh, and actually declare a small
And let's say I call I am trying to calculate circumference
And what could be the formula for second 2 pi r, okay, right so I make uh two
Two into this one and this one right
Let's say another function that I have I'll I'll replicate this one
I'll put it here then something that I have to calculate is diameter
Diameter is
2r so let's remove this pipe
Right now if I try to console.log console.log and I say let's say area
Uh, I calculate calculate area and I pass my radius array into it and let's say I try to
Copy and create this one. Let's say I say circumference
Right, let's say I do the same thing I say calculate diameter. This is our diameter
Right now if let's say if this is working fine, I'll try to comment all the epoch code for a second
Let's try to re-execute this one
Uh, okay, there's a debugger here. I don't need it now if you see here what's happening is that we are able to print
All the values here that's working fine if you see here I'm able to get all the things that we need
Okay, but but do you see
Anything again are we breaking any principle that just we have discussed just now we have discussed something
Are we repeating any logic here
Are we repeating any logic here
Are we repeating any logic here guys just think of it like
Loops right. It's a common thing that we are trying to redo again and again again again, right?
Just a formula is changing isn't it all the other structure is same
Right
Param is same just a formula is changing now. Can anyone think of like the the structure that we have like this can be
Made a better readable code in terms of using something like high order function and a callback function
Can anyone think of it like that combination? How can we do that?
Anyone think of it like how can we do this?
So
Right now let's say let's say if I give you an
You know idea
What if I have a common function function?
calculate
And I say that i'll have something like accepting parameters
What i'll accept here is that so let's say radius array
I'll see i'll still have
my radius array
But also hell i'll have something like callback function
Say callback
Now what i'll i'll i'm supposed to do here is that i'll copy this thing whole thing
I'll put it here, but instead of this thing
I'll do something like callback
And i'll pass inside my radius of like
So
So what i'm just trying to do is that i'm just i've put all this thing here
and
Yeah
Right somewhere. So now we made one common function called calculate
Which is accepting a callback now, let's declare those callback functions. Let's say
calculate
Let's say I try to this is a the top one is version one of a code. Let's say I make this as a
version one
something like
v1
Okay
Now we are trying to build something called as version 2 v2 of code
Let's say calculate area inside this area what i'll receive i'll receive a radius of it
What I can return here return that same formula isn't it area is 3 pi r square
I mean pi r square. Sorry, let me copy this
Instead of this I can do radius
And radius
Okay
So this is supposed to give me area now if I try to copy this one, I paste it here, let's say diameter
of
It would be 2 r
Right and twice of radius then let's say I have
Circumference
Now circumference again picking up that formula 2 pi r
So
I do 3.14 into this one
Okay, so what I've just stated here is that I've created one function which will iterate and do all the handling
I'll pass on a function which is supposed to handle the logic part. Why did I separate this way is that
This is simple
Area diameter and circumference
But what if there are some complicated problems that you see in the circle like when you studied any mathematical chapters
Which are related to menstruations or geometry?
Wherever circles comes in
There are difficult problems comes in so what if those calculator parameter calculator that particular function will be common
And this result if for each radius array, it will try to calculate and push it and build back the logic
So i'm trying to separate the concerns so this will handle the logic part
This will try to work on a building an output for us. Okay
Now let's say how do we actually call this?
let's say I do
console dot log
Let's say I have an again
I tried to copy this whole thing
So we have calculated instead of calculate area i'll call calculate
and
I'll give let's say calculate area
here
now
Uh in the same way, let's say I update this I update this
And I pass something like
calculate
Circumference then again, I say calculate
diameter
Is this logic clear guys what i'm trying to do when I why how i'm able to avoid this particular for loop
Write it once a dummy logic, which is applicable for every function
And i've written separated the point of concerns also
Is this clear
So tell me what is higher order function here and what is a callback function here?
Here in this example, what is a higher order function when what is a callback function according to you?
Yes, can anyone write down
okay
So somebody says calculate is a high order function
So somebody says calculate is a higher order function is everyone agreeing on that
Right
Anyone having any doubt whether calculate is a higher order function or not because it's it's it is something which is accepting a function
And or it is returning even if it is returning or accepting it
That this particular function is called as higher. So here
Calculate is something called as higher order function
Whereas this particular calculate area circumference diameter are called as callback functions, isn't it?
They will be called depending on whenever whatever use case it is
Right
I hope this uh
Now you got the better clarity
Like how higher order functions and callbacks helps us to write a better code
And it's a clear-cut simple basic two concepts
Is everyone agreeing that you got it you got better understanding about what is callback and higher order function now?
So
Great summit
so now
now
We have something really interesting guys something really interesting that I want to talk about
Called as imperative versus declarative way of writing code. Has anyone heard of this one?
Okay, uh, do you want me to execute this i'll execute this give me a second
Uh callback
Open integrated terminal
Let's say this this is a terminal which is having code
Now if you see still i'm able to execute that code
And top code I have commented it and still i'm able to get that same result whichever I got it earlier
Is that clear?
Okay now
Now, uh, I want to talk about something called imperative
Versus uh declarative
Let's say this is just uh, you know a theory concept that I want to talk about because
Um
In future i'm going to say that this is a declarative way of writing a code or this is an imperative way of writing a code
I just want you to understand that when I say that keyword, okay
now
Let me think of it guys example, okay now let's say
Okay
If you see there are some people uh in real life
You might have seen like where you have to guide them step by step
Like one by one like if you are asking them to do one work
You have to tell them
Let's say if you have seen tarak mitaka ultra chashma
So in that there's something some character called as baga bhai where you have to introduce tell him step by step
Hey do this step then this step then this step you're not supposed to tell him that can you complete this work?
so
Uh, how do I tell this one is that let's say
There are some people slow learners. There are some one like fast learners
Okay. Now for the fast learner, you'll say that hey, there is some bug
In your project
Go and find it out and close it off. There is something let's say your manager comes and tell you that hey
There is a p3 bug and close that one and let me know once you close it
Now he calls you this phone and he says this one and it's done
Now there are two two types of people now firstly he he told that there is something p3 bug
We don't know who reported it where it is there
Uh what of whom to contact what to do. There's no message specifics have been given, right?
When someone comes to and tell you that complete this one, but there's no specifics given
but
If you are someone professional and better at knowledge, right and responsible you'll understand what he's trying to say
It's like hey, uh, if you know, there's a p3 bug you'll go and check
Yeah, you'll go and check
Inside your emails there might be someone who reported and uh bug
Then you will go and do the debugging part and then you will face the pr and fix it up
And push it to the live then you will say go back to the manager and say that hey, I've addressed the issue
right, you are trying you reduce that all the efforts, but
This is one of the use case and the other use case is let's say
Um
He called it same call to the fresher
Now fresher doesn't know where to find a bug
He doesn't know whom to contact. He doesn't know how to raise a pr. He doesn't know where to get approvals. He doesn't know
Uh, like once pr is merged to go for the deployment. He doesn't know like then go back and respond to him
For in order to know all of this right you have to tell him
Go and check this bug you that might be there in some e-mail that user might have reported it
Once you find that email
Try to recreate those scenario on your product once you recreate it
If you are able to recreate it then fix that bug push that code
Right when i'm saying that
When i'm when a person who is whoever is telling that right step by step procedure like one by one command
to other person
That one by one type of command is something called as imperative way of coding
Like when you try to guide each line of step
by step
Step by step process
Whereas something like declarative is
You just say it
Like they handle all the things like you just say that
I want this thing to get done
Right
Yeah, now the better example i'll say
Now i'll take a simple example, but did you get the theory part at least a theory logic that I was talking about till now
Did you understand the theory? Uh, just I was speaking about no, let's say
Let's say we know that there's an array
1 2 3 4 and what if I want to do push an element 4 into it
Right and I try to do a console dot log of array
now, let's say
uh instead of executing this file, let's say I
node
Imperative versus a declarative
Don't chase
If you see I I got output as expected all the items are there but
You call a function called push
But did you explain that array? How can you push that four item into it?
Like how can you push a particular what should you do in order to push that item?
Like you have to increase the size of an array by one then add that item at the last of the item
Then only do it
Right. We didn't say that particular all those statements. So we didn't guide it step by step. How can you do it?
We just say that hey push it
You you decide like how you want to do it's your headache. I don't know get it done
So this is when i'm when i'm using something library, right to do some other work
Then I say that i'm i'm trying to write a declarative code i'm trying to write a better cleaner code like
If I if I don't have a push out of library available or method available
Imagine if I want to write this custom logic native logic, it would be really tough, right to do all the use cases that are available
like step by step process
so
most of the coding that you do in today's world is like a
declarative way of doing it
But
When you'll go to the web development, right when you are actually dealing with dom
uh that
in next class, uh, you will be
Meeting shashvath will be taking those classes for next three classes. I wouldn't be available, but when he'll start teaching the dom
When you're trying to change something on a web
On screen
Using some javascript on screen when you're changing something you have to tell it step by step
What you are doing like you have to select a particular item then you can change the color or update it
So when you're actually dealing with dom, it's like
Doing writing an imperative way of coding
You got the basic understanding right? What is imperative versus declarative?
Right now, uh
Now if you if someone says that react is a declarative way of code declarative way of writing a code
At least you will be able to get a meaning of it like
There's a much of work being done behind the scenes rather than we saying it react is doing much of work for us
Isn't it?
So you can explore like uh imperative
versus uh
Imperative versus uh declarative programming
So if you see declarative program is a paradigm describing what program does without explicitly specifying it control flow
Imperative programming is a paradigm describing how the program should do something explicitly specifying each instruction or step statement step by step
So are you able to relate this now this definition
Yeah, bootstrap is also declarative you are not doing much of work right somehow the other person is 20
Okay
So if you go and see
If you see
Is c++ declarative or imperative for trans java c c++ are example of imperative programming
Uh, this is not the right, uh, maybe
Example but i'll give you further more right examples like to relate it because this will confuse you again
But the on top level this is the definition guys just try to relate with that one
Okay
Someone else is doing work for you. This is a declarative way when you are trying to guide through each step by step
Yeah, mostly libraries and frameworks are declarative because whenever you are using the libraries and frameworks
Are imperative but when you are consuming or using that library, then you can say that i'm i'm writing a declarative code because i'm using someone else work
I've been up. This is a example of this one, right? This is a theoretical concept
Okay, same as like if I say object oriented functional programming or anything that's like, uh, yeah
This is for imperative what about declarative I didn't get your exact question
This is a declarative code buddy, this is not an imperative imperative is where you do step by step process
Okay, so this is a declarative code body this is not an imperative imperative is where you do step-by-step process
This is not an imperative imperative is where you do step by step process
The above example
This is for declarative example
This is a declarative where you are trying to when you're pushing an item four into an array
You're not saying like how you should be able to push it
How you can increase the size of an array and add an item new item into it
Okay
Yeah, let's say if you say imperative logic, uh, i've got a suggestion from some bit some bit let's say if I say
X equal to 10
And const y equal to 20 then I can say if I want to add
let's say
sum
Equal to x plus y
Console dot log sum this is an imperative code
Step by step process. This is somewhat declarative in nature
Got it. So I hope guys this this basic definition is clear now
I'm going to talk about few of the you know existing
Existing higher order functions
Those are present on array
Does anyone know?
Uh, like some higher order functions
If anyone have came across and understood that
like
Some advanced functions on arrays
That you might have come across
Because we have introduced a list of functions which are already on arrays when we discuss in depth
But some more functions
Okay
Have you have anyone heard of?
No slice shift and all all those things we have covered right, uh, but some more advanced
Yeah map no
Let's say I have map.js
No, what does i'm doing let's say I pick an example, uh
Uh
I have an array again basic example. I'll try to use that and explain this concept
Say I have an
two three four five six
Let's say I have this elements now
I want to
Multiply each item by
Like three or four or five anything let's say, uh
Or let's say I can say calculate squares of each number
If I want to calculate squares of each number i'll write a function right calculate
Square
Of each number where i'll have an array then what i'll do i'll isolate through the loop
Let's say I have a lit
result of an array then
For loop
Doing this then
result dot push
array of i into
array of i this is what a function looks like right for
Calculate squares do you guys agree square is like multiplied by itself
You know
This is right way of writing code. I agree
I agree that you can always do this thing and
Let's say calculate squares and then you can say that
Hey, I want to pass this array
Uh, and if I try to execute this let's say node
map dot js
If you see i'm able to get what output as expected for a 9 16 25 36. That's fine
but
What if there is a utility that you don't need to do this and you have something like higher order function?
Now what map suggest is
Here where map comes but what one thing I want to explain here is that for each item in an array
Are we doing same operation?
Are we doing same sort of logic same operation here?
Like multiplying by itself
Same operation right so you should prefer map only on when
Each index of an of the array
You are executing same operation or expecting same operation
To be done, okay, so let's say
How does map works now let's explore how does map works
If you see here one of the common principle is like
Whenever we have studied problem solving right we are supposed to not disturb existing
Input arrays right or whatever you are receiving array in a function you are supposed to build a new array and return it
This is not considered an extra space, but this is something by default you do it
Instead of disturbing this existing array you create a new array
This is a common core principle, right?
You guys agree with that point
So
Map also what it does it internally map is an higher order function, okay?
Whenever say is I say higher order function on each array you can call something like map
What what does higher order function does?
What does higher order function does when we can call a particular function as higher order
Again trying to re-revise that same definition when it when it takes an callback function into it, right?
Do you guys agree with that point when it has a callback now, let's declare something a callback function. Let's say this is a callback
Have a callback function inside this i'll have let's say
Number
And what is all this something i'm doing is i'm returning number
into number
Okay, i'm multiplying by number by number now
What I can do inside this map is that let's say if I hover over it if you see
Let me do this if you see it takes a callback function
And number array
Right if you see it again
Honestly one way of writing this logic is like you can always do this callback function pass this callback function into it
Okay
now
Though the the better way of writing this one is like, let's say
you declare a callback function here itself and
So what it does is like it iterates through each of the item
Let's say now each item is having a number and its index. We can have you'll have an access to the index each time
Okay. Now you can return something here. Is that
number into number
Same thing again, so what maps does it it works like a for each loop
For each loop
But you can directly write like this logic and you can store as a output array
Okay now
Also, if you want to do a console log you can do something like console dot log
Number and index let's say if i'm doing this also
And I try to do console dot log of a number output array
No
So what map does map?
Takes a callback function since it's a higher order function
Once it takes it it iterates through each of the array index like for each loop for each item
And this is number is that particular item and it also has an something like index
This value can be you can define anything like you can say num or anything up to you. It's up to you
Like whatever you want you can define it
Okay. So how can you say that I can define anything if you hover over it if you see
It has something like value
then index
Then array of numbers like if you even want the whatever array you are having you can also access the array
Okay, you can also scroll down and you can see what all definitions of this are
but on top level
Since it's a higher order function it takes an in your callback function and it's iterating through each of the index
Each of the index then it's getting that index value and return this returning this one
let's say if I
Try to execute this one node
map dot js
Now do you see this?
What's happening here? I will try to comment this again
Clear this console clear and try to re-execute this one now if you see
firstly
What's happening?
Here in the array we had something like two three four five six
So it picked first item and the index of that particular item is zero because we we were trying to output something like
Number and index and the next item was three and its index was one
So why I was trying to print index is that I was wanted to show that that you know
This works like a for each loop for each of item
This callback function will be executed
Like for each item this callback function will be executed some the other syntax that I was writing was
I was I wanted to show you this how this works
callback
Now let's say you have here
You can have num and index same logic. Let's say if I cut this
And paste it here
And you can say
You have this callback function here
Each time you'll call it
passing
num and index
You can still do that. I just extracted that logic outside
So that you can feel that i'm still passing a function instead writing the inside it
Okay
I hope this is clear guys how map works
This
Oh, there are too many guys so too many functions like because it's a functional programming language itself
I just want you to introduce step by step. What is an higher order function and the main
Core higher order functions what are existing in it
Now if you see when to go for map again trying to repeat guys because this is somewhat interview specific
And you will be trying to use this
More than anything else even if you go for react
Okay
A map function is used when you want to do a same operation on each item of an array
Same item of an array you picked each item and you try to do that same operation like you're trying to multiply it
It's a square
Okay
So map is something where we can pass the function inside it and perform a task directly inside it
but for but for each it's just like
To cover it all elements to cover all the elements only
Uh last point I didn't understand some with a performer task directly inside but for each is like just to cover all the elements
Yeah for each
Uh, yeah, it covers all the elements but here
Uh, if you see it is also returning as a new array
Like you are storing here inside a new array
This is working like a same this function
Whatever function we have written it is working like the same function, but it just replaced our logic
Yeah
Okay, so
Is map clear guys when to use map and what is map?
of
like
On what data type you can use map?
All those points clear, right?
I've took it very slowly. I took it really slowly
Okay
Do you need a break or I can take uh 20 minutes I can close the session today. It's up to you guys
Okay continue, okay, then uh, let's say I have a some simple problem like cons or transaction
Uh and an array of transactions, let's say I have like thousand three hundred five hundred
two hundred
Hundred like these are the list of transactions. No
These are let's say these are in rupees. I want to convert into uh
Ust like let's say inr to usd
Ust
So let's say the currency currently inr to usd is at valuing it 83 rupees to one dollar now
Do you think here I can use some somewhere around a map function here
Do you think I can use map here
Because what what would be the operation that I actually have to do divide by it right divide each
uh value of an array by 83
So let's write down write down this logic. Let's say I have
output
Transaction array
I can do transaction dot map
Again a callback function inside it. Let's say I have each transaction and I have index
Which I won't be using it as of now and what I have to do I have to return something like transaction
Uh, it's txn each item of this one divided by inr to usd
And I can console dot log of output transaction array
Okay
Is that clear guys how can how we can write down okay how we can use this map
I just gave gave one more example simple example
So if this is clear, let's move with the something called as filter filter dot js. No, so i'm introducing
No exact dollar value on it. Yeah
Yeah
So
Guys coming to second higher order function called filter
Now let's take an example of an array where you will have item from one
To three five then let's say I have nine then let's say I have this then I have this
So what we have one to twenty in the items in an array, okay
Uh, what if I want only even numbers?
What if I want only even numbers
Okay out of this array what I can do is that let's say I have a function
Get even
Okay again same thing an array inside it I can have let output
Right then I can go for the loop then the basic logic would be array of i
Percentage of twice is equivalent to zero
Then I would add element into this one, isn't it?
Guys this would be a logic for writing an even getting an even numbers out of an array, isn't it?
Like i'm just iterating through each item then i'm checking if it is like, uh, you know
Kind of matching this condition
Uh
Ankit I I need to show around this like you can google this
What it does is like two?
Amper cent of two gives you zero. It's just i'm checking reminder if the reminder of value
When it is divided by two is equal to zero then
It says we can say that it is an even number
Like
That's a basic formula right how to know if a number is even or not
Okay
I can execute this one and show you uh node
Let's say I have to call this function
Uh get even of array
I have to console log this one
Okay node filter.js if you see i'm getting only the even numbers out of it
Guys is this clear the point is clear, right? Uh, this is a basic function
You might have came across multiple times in the dsa. No, but what we are doing here
Like earlier in map we were iterating through each of item and then we were doing some same operation here
Are we filtering out an existing array?
Do you think we are doing that filtering out on a basic each kind one condition?
Are we filtering out an array aren't we filtering out this array?
Basing on a condition like based just on if condition
Yes, right muneshwar do you think any even like other way around
So
The same thing can be done using filter
Function which is a hydra function
Let's say if I want to do something get even numbers
here
What you can do here is that let's say I have an array dot filter
I'll say that filter items based on a particular condition. How can I do it? Let's I'll get each number
On each number check one condition check one condition what condition if
I'll say that if only number multi divided by two
only if
Only if this statement is true
Only if this statement is true, then include it in the ket even numbers or else
Don't include it
So filter is generally used
whenever
You want to filter and particular array based on some condition
Let's say I put it here
And I try to re-execute this one
Uh, okay, just a second get you
Okay
Uh, it's not a function here
Do you see this guys
Uh, i'll help you out with that, uh bishek, uh, give me some time, okay
But let's focus on the concept so that we can finish our day today
now
Filter logic is now what if I want to get odd numbers here?
What if I get need to get odd numbers it would be really simple right I have to change one condition get odd numbers
Filter it with return
Not equal to
Is entry
So
Okay
Yeah, i'll come to that somewhere
so
I hope now map and filter logic is clear when to go for map if you want to apply any common
operation on each of item like multiplication division or any logic on anything or any item you go for map
Right if you want if whenever you are choosing filter actually you are filtering out items
Like I want only this thing or that thing basing on a one condition and if this particular condition is satisfied only that
Only then this whatever you are returning right? Whatever is happening like this logic same thing in that output array that will be there
Okay, base if you want to this is just a simple condition like a if condition
Okay, is that clear guys filter one map and filter both things?
Now I want to talk about
One thing triple equal to versus double equal to
Does anyone know what this does if anyone knows can we pick can they ping me personally if anyone knows this?
This is a
Like if you see I used sometimes a triple equal to sometimes I used double equal to somewhere
Right i'll show it
But I use this one
Okay
Now let's let's see this what it does. Okay, firstly
Both the things are used for comparison. These are comparison
Operators, okay
Now how does it compare let's say I say const
X equal to 10 or let's say 10 and const y equal to 10
Now if I try to do console dot log
Let's say
x double equal to y
comma
X triple equal to y
Just let's explore this by this example, uh, i'll try to come let's be that also we'll see all the outputs
now if you see
for the first thing
When I used double equal to I got something as a true. Can you see this guys?
When I use double equal to I got true and when I use triple equal to I got false
So behind the scenes when you are using something like double equal to
Is just checking
Content
Content value
So there's a one big huge concept going on behind the scenes when you use double equal to
But when you are using triple equal to
checking
both
Data type and value
Okay
now how can
A particular string can be converted into number or a number can be converted into string when using double equal to
That's a type conversion by default. It is happening in js
That's really one of the difficult
Uh, you know, I would say way to
Understand there are some set of rules that you can always remember
but
in my coding practice in my experience
Whenever if someone is using double equal to I flag it or i'm being flagged
So you're always supposed to use triple equal to which will do exact
Comparison check like if both are equal or not
Is this clear what is double equal to and what is triple equal to and what to use it?
Okay
Because behind the scenes this particular thing
10 of string is converted into
number 10
There are many use cases how this thing works because javascript is really
Irritating language when you because that's been developed in 10 days. Now this triple equal to is solving those issues
So you if you are using double equal to you might sometimes fell into problems
Uh, like if you're using it in any pro like when you're writing code huge code
Please avoid using double equal to if you want a statements like a series of rules
Which thing is converted into which one?
I would give it but I won't recommend you to remember all of them those conditions. It's generally useless
Why don't you write a write a coding practice use statistic or triple equal to?
Okay, I hope this basic uh
Uh, idea is clear. I hope map and filter is also clear
So if this thing is clear, can we move it guys?
Can we move it to the last thing?
and uh people generally
Uh avoid this one and but
Let's say uh again, I just want to end this filter with one example, uh, if you go for the map
I had this transaction, right?
let's say I have this an array and also
I have uh inside this array. I have some negative numbers. Also, let's say
Minus 200 220
Minus 300 minus 400
So i'll say that uh, can you get me only positives? Let's uh get me
only positive
Transactions
So how can you do this guys?
Okay
How can you do this
Can anyone give me uh, what condition I should write on filter?
Just one condition transaction greater than zero, right?
This should solve my issue right only get me the positives simple if condition
Or else imagine for doing this also sometimes we have to write the loops
For loop and write those many conditions and find the length of an array and all those things, right?
We can avoid this using filter. Do you understand the power of this functions that we are learning?
It it eases your code now if you see those have been filtered out
Now comes one of the
Best thing guys that I feel uh, you know reduce what reduce does or the problem statement for the radius. Okay?
How many of you remember something like prefix sum?
Dsa problems
Where you have to you know
Prepare an array which is storing all the sums from the array
Uh prepare an array which is storing all the sums from the before index still there, right?
so you have to write a loops and store it or let's say something like
Sum of all numbers sum of all the numbers
Let's go back to the prefix sum later, but sum of all the numbers
right
What could be the basic use case? How do you do this one? Let's say again I take this array
I'm using this example. I can use prefix one, but that will complicate a way of understanding it
But let's say I have this one to the way
What is a way that you can calculate the sum? Let's say if I go for for loop again
Uh, I can still do something like is that let's say I have let
sum equal to zero and
I have to declare this outside. This is
This is not the right way to do it
Let's say this is a function
sum of numbers
array
Right, then something you would do is sum plus array of i then you will return sum
Right, this is the example that you would do it, right?
If you say say if someone says that write a method for finding a sum of numbers
Isn't it
Guys give me thumbs up thumbs up if you are aligned with me
Okay, this is a like a function where you can find sum of numbers now what if
If here what we are doing it here, let's say I'll execute this one for our sake
But what what we are trying to do it here what sort of operation is happening here
Just think of that way
Aren't we reducing all the items of an array into one number?
Number
Just think it from that perspective that
Aren't we reducing all the array in numbers into one number like a sum?
Like we are not utilizing here the logic here is just that if you see in the earlier filter or
When we write a simple functions or map
I'll put it, uh them by one by one. Let's say I split this one
Again, I go
I pick up a map here
So I pick up a map and let's say close my filter now
I'll pull this one bit down here
Let's say I reduce this one
Yeah
If you're seeing there's all those examples when we write the simple functions right a sum of number calculate square or get even
We were storing results in an array when it comes to filter and map
But when we went when we went for some of our numbers, we are actually using only one variable and we are returning it
We are not using of our each index right?
We are not doing it for each index item or some operation or filtering out on some condition
But we are reducing an array of items into one number. Can I say that?
Yeah, that's common analogy that I want to catch it so
What I want to say is that reduce is a higher order function
Reduce is a higher order function
Should be used
When you want to
Reduce
Array of
Numbers or items
Into one
Into a single item. Okay. Now, how can you do this? I'm just showing you one example
Let's say
const
someone
I'll just go on array. I'll say reduce
Reduce again since this is a higher order function. It is supposed to take a callback function
Once it takes a callback function here
It has two things
One thing is called accumulator
Or acc and this can be number so when I say acc
Okay
You can always relate to the some variable that we used where we are appending each time again and again
Okay, or else let's declare this as a result
result variable
Which will be appended again and again now
What and how you will reduce this one?
is that
You will return
Result plus now
So what we are doing earlier if you see here one variable
that we have kept it that will be first now if I hover it if you see
A callback function and it says that previous value previous value when I say that first value will be zero
Then I'll go with the first number number would be one
Then I'll store number one here in the result
Then i'll keep on updating this one
Is are you able to relate this how this will work I can show you step by step give me a second
If you see for both the things we are able to get that same output
But what i'm saying is that it takes two parameters
One is accumulator or like one person who is accumulating operation results like this is a variable which is
You know defined outside of a loop that is accumulating all the results right consecutive results and attaching to it
And it is being reduced and returned at last. So this is how it is working if I can show you
Let me debug this logic
If you see here
firstly
What I got here if you see first time
When I entered it the initial result
is one
Because index one is executed the second item i'm getting as num as a number two
And when I execute this one, let's say if I press enter
Again when I come here if you see this number is updated as three
Because it summed first two items then the third item that I have in the result is to sum the three
If I click again press, uh, you know play
If you see the number become
The num is four and the result becomes six because it had
Like some of the elements still now like three plus two plus one six and the number is four
Next step the result will become ten
Then I have num five
Then i'm executing result then it will do some
I hope this point is clear guys how this is result is working accumulating all the consecutive results that you have
Okay
now
you can
Let's explore how
Think of it. How can you do something like prefix sum logic here?
Just think of it if you can apply prefix sum
So
Time complexity same for yes time complexity same, but uh, the way of writing code is easier upendra
Right this this particular thing the whatever higher order functions we have discussed filter map
Reduce are generally
Yeah, pre-push those results so those are actually making you to write a better code with a clear code
Okay, I have uh
You know a function i'll give you an example. Let's say I
Copy the code. I just generated this logic. Okay in chat gpt
Uh to just show you like how this works, okay
If you see uh calculate prefix sum if you are doing someone is you writing in js code
They should have done this way now if you see
Accumulate the sum previous sum
What we are doing here?
Like uh, it's an input array then i'm calculate prefix sum if I go inside this i'm getting an array of item
I'm reducing array of item here
Now each time i'm getting an accumulator
and a current value
When i'm getting this current value now inside accumulated dot push
Okay, i'm considering this element now. There is something
Extra thing that I want to help you understand you that
I have to define
What is a default value of result if I give a default value of result as zero?
So if you see it is asking me point out the initial value. What would be the initial value?
After a callback
So it takes two things here first is a callback callback function then a default value here
when I
Did when I explained i'm trying to explain prefix sum the default value for prefix sum would be because we need an array of
Items calculated till that range right?
Now if you see
I had a default value as an empty array then i'm trying to push
each item into this uh
It array such that if accumulated dot length is greater than zero like if the item is greater than zero
and
Here with something used called as a tertiary operator, okay
Something as a tertiary operator then i'm accumulating current item whatever item is there now
So if you see this if I can write down this condition in a easier way to make you understand here what's happening if
This is there
If accumulator dot length is greater than this one
Let's say I can push the pull this one outside because they have returned tertiary operator
Let's say if I make it easier to understand this one
Let's say if this is greater than length zero then I'll use something like
Okay accumulator dot push
Plus current value
Or else
I'll push accumulator dot push current value
This is a condition they have written simple condition like if the first if it is not the first element push the current value if it is like
Uh other elements like second index just keep on adding get the last element. What was in the accumulator and keep on adding it
Is this clear guys how this prefix sum is function is written
If I reduce remove this comments, right you will be able to see how clearer this code works when you use the reduce function
But it just comes with a practice like what is a again like if you can write down in a simple js and compare this one
Then you will be able to relate like how reduce actually is trying to help us out
writing a better code
Okay
Uh, if you want to use all of this hos on objects which has an array, uh, can we just directly pass object?
Yeah, uh, we can do that some bit. Yes, we can do that
Always right. Let's say I push this inside an object itself
Uh const object inside that let's say I have an array
All right, I have this one
Okay, if I have this one, so whenever i'm calling a function i'm supposed to call object dot array
That's it, uh, everything will be solved
And here if I want to do it added object dot array reduce still it would work as expected
So, let me remove this debugger and play it if you see i'm able to get all the things
prefix sum is also working i've just copy pasted it because
Uh, you all all people, you know all know that logic actually what prefix sum does and by this example
You might be able to better relate how reduce works
So, let's say I have an array of objects which has an array and I want to use it as an array
So, let's say I have an array of objects
So guys, uh, is this
Clear what we have done? Yeah, syntactically I would say it takes time
But to you know in order to revise this thing, right? Uh, just let me give five minutes on it
What we have done where you have understood first thing something called as
higher order function and callbacks
Higher order is a function which takes function in it along with other arguments or doesn't matter if it doesn't
Callback is something which one is passed inside it that example we have cleared it
Then we went on to discuss some existing library
higher order functions
Before this we understanding something something called imperative versus declarative
Coding now whenever you are using something existing library higher order functions
We are writing a more declarative code rather than writing a it's like more and the more declarative code you write
It's a more cleaner code. You can always solve the functions like whatever functions we have discussed
Map filter reduce if you see we were all we were able to do
Build or get the result out of this using for loops that we can write it logic
But the more declarative code you write the syntaxes are shorter and it's a better cleaner thing now
If you when you now when you want to go for map
When you want to apply same operation?
on each item
And when you want to go for filter filter in order to filter items of an array
of items
Based on condition
Go for reduce when you want to
Reduce array of items into one value
So
Is this clear guys how this all things works whatever we have discussed today
Uh cheat sheet, uh cheat sheet. I'm not exactly sure upendra, but
Uh for me right whenever I want to prepare anything, so it's a javascript info, uh, if you search here
uh
Let's say reduce
It's not there here. I'll show you the document where you can prepare map reduce filter, but
This is a better document where you can understand things
Okay
For the javascript level, but i'll share documents whichever you won't be able to find here
But I hope uh, you will be able to
Understand the concepts of higher functions callbacks and some existing higher functions which are there. Okay
So if all these points are clear guys
Uh, can we start doubt session because this is the content I wanted to uh, you know
Take it
So nice guys
I'll start the doubt session. So
Whoever had better understanding, uh, feel free to drop
So from the next class guys for the next three classes, uh, I won't be available
so
Your uh three next three classes which will be more related to dom
Since we have introduced js up to an extent
Now we will be talking more on a how
You will be able to use html
css and js
And use js to interact with html and play around with those things
So these things will be taken by
shashwat
Okay, he works at geocinema one of the really great co, uh, you know web developer
Okay
Okay
So he has been associated with scaler for more than eight months and he has proven himself to be a good instructor
So hope you will enjoy classes for the next three classes
Then i'll come back and we'll build a project called canban
So once you understand basics of dom and how do you interact and what are the events that are generally handled how events are handled?
in a browser
Okay
So once you get those clarities, we'll build something like a canban board
So project level project level item. I'll pick it up again back
Okay guys
So did you like today's class in last class fns data type we had used something cons and then we
Try to change the values. It should be technically
Ah, okay. I'll answer this question share your code base also. Okay. Uh, yeah, i'll do that munish
So shashar will be pushing his code i'll also uh may make sure that i'll try to update my code so i'll answer
some bits question
So some bits where basic question is like if you remember in last class we declared an object
Uh, like let's say this is uh, one
Let's say I have something like one and two. I have something like two
And I go on to say that object two
And I say object and I say that hey object two dot
One equal to let's say three
If i'm doing this way so
Or this is the question, isn't it sambit are you talking about this one?
Right now what's happening when I explained last time in reference data type
Let's take this one
Let's take this example
First object was declared and uh memory was created which is storing this particular thing, right?
Let's say what it is storing
one
one
And two two
Right now when i'm assigning
Object two to this one
Right when i'm assigning this to it
actually
Const is something we say that final
final value
right
So what I mean to say that for the object to one object you cannot change it
But when you're actually considering reference data type, right when you're considering array also
Array also you can declare array
Like one two, three
Four if you see when you're declaring a const as an array you are able to do something like a push operation
or pop operation
Or shift or unshift or any sort of operations because on reference data types
You're not actually you know, there's something like it's not working like pass by value
It's working like a pass by reference
I'll discuss this in depth actually how this is working why const why even after declaring const you are able to update
When you're declaring it pass by reference, right each copy will have the reference and they can update it
It's not that you are updating the like this value
But if you declare
Like a primitive data type right const x equal to two
Right, then you cannot go and say that x equal to three
Because this will be stored
Here in the stack and stack value will be final. But when it comes to reference data type, you can still do the manipulation
Yeah const behaves like a let so when you go for
Like let's make let me fix this issues like i'll show you wherever I use let right
Since we were discussing more about
for some works
For map, let's say, uh, if you see here wherever I used it
Let's say this is a loop, right if you see loop
Uh, let me uncomment this code in the map I have let's say if I make a const
I comment this out code
Okay, if I comment this code and if you see I made a const result array now, let's say I
Clear this and I say node map dot js
You see I didn't get error
But we are adding something to it. So for reference data type const will work like a let but
It's a standard that you would declare them as a constraint itself
Is that clear?
Let's say even if I do right
Even if I do this way, let's say
const
Object let's say I have an object
Also
And I return something like result
Let's say i'm returning result comma object
Okay
Of object now, let's say i'm trying to just manipulate it. I'll undo this one or whatever. I'm trying to do it
Let's say object dot
Like whenever you don't know the value like you can do array of i
And you can say
Square of this one
Okay, now let's see what will be the output of it
If you see what I got and the output object for the 2 the square value is 4 for the 3
It is 9 for the 4 it is 16 5 25 6 36
Do you get that even if I declare a const even if i'm manipulating it you can do that
So for reference data types actually
uh
let const behave doesn't behave differently, but it's
standard practice to declare constraint use
Uh, I mean the standard practice is wherever you are it's possible to use
uh
Const you should go for it until unless there is you are not updating that value again. Don't go for let for the primitives
Okay
Uh, so can I mark this as answered uh some bit?
Great, uh any any anything else because any other questions you have
Okay
So are you able to catch up guys whatever i'm teaching the concepts wise and everything
Could be rest operator spread operator destructuring that we have discussed in depth a bit clearer way
Right great
Class 10 nodes
Because my way of understanding logics is that right, uh, basically I try to think like
Even if I call back, what is the call back in real terms? Like when I say call back or reducing it filtering it
Mapping each item like i'm mapping it to particular thing. So
generalized, right
Any such like when you generalize exactly with uh, use cases like you deal in real time
You will be able to relate and you know, remember it easily. So that's my idea
So that's why I try to take those examples
Also any such gaming revisions for this concept like flex froggy
Some bit if you see, uh, I don't have
Anything like uh practicing if you see i've shown you for each example for each higher order function
I've written a for loop logic. I optimized and written a bit
I'm not I didn't optimize time complexity or space complexity
But I made it to write a cleaner code even I took a prefix some even if I give you a prefix some problem
If you are writing in js, you are supposed to write a for loop, but you can use it to reduce function
So this will come with a practice
All the things that you do with a for loop you will try to avoid those for loops writing
Because you know that on an array or sort of logic you have this higher order functions
Which can do most of the concepts that you want to do
Because this will come when you try to go for problem solving pick it up problem solving try to do it in js
You will be able to see this one
But there are nothing like specific, uh things that I found it as such, but I'll check and get back to you
Okay, so it's more of a problem solving in js. You'll be able to select you're using this higher order functions
Okay
So guys if everything is clear can we close the session
If you don't have doubts
We ended it really quick right two hours 13 minutes or 14 minutes clocked
Linked to practice, uh
problem solving functional programming, uh
Let's say let's say let's say I do I'll show you something guys. I'll show you something
Do this thing go to the late code
Right problems pick it anything you have
I think I have solved some list of problems, but let's say you go for two some anything that you have
Right, uh, that's fine
Okay
You pick it in js simple you can practice it here right anything you can do good anywhere like num sign target value
You know, so whenever you are trying to calculate you will get to see if there's a target value available
We can pick it up any uh function like if you go for javascript right abhishek or anyone
You will be seeing a default as a functional programming language
That's the reason why I was saying I was saying that hey js is a complete functional program
You pick this problem or let's say you pick it like let's say I pick something like lru cache lru cache is something a complicated problem
right
As I pick a lru cache
Okay, if you see in javascript
They you they declared in functions and there are something like prototypes we'll declare we'll understand what prototypes are in future, but
Everything is a function. You will see a function key
Uh attached to it. So whenever you write down the logics to it, right you are supposed to use these functions more and more
So you'll get used to it like how do you do it now lru cache you you you basically if you go for java
Right, even I think I solved it in java itself if you go for my submissions
uh
Right, so i've solved in java, but where when you go for java, you will be able to see like, uh, you know a simple
Class-based approach, but when you go for javascript, uh
Uh, you will be again writing in this functions
I didn't practice in javascript as much because I was a full stack developer. I also work in java
and for more most of the
Yeah, i'm talking to both guys I got confused
But i'm just saying that if you want to practice, uh
If you want to practice, okay, just go for any problem solving you'll be able to do it
Okay
Yeah, thank you maneshwara
I I would I wish for taking all the classes even I love it because uh
I get to learn when I teach also because I get to uh study in depth. I study
With better examples. It's like a revision for me. Also i'm trying to explain people
And also i'm trying to
Okay road map sh
Okay
So it's it's a really great journey for me also when I thought of becoming an instructor
so
Even I'll miss it. But yeah family event one of the big thing. So this is a
Link shared by ankit
So he's talking about like roadmaps. Let me ping pin this one for everyone
One can explore this
I can do anything share it in whatsapp. I'll pin this in the whatsapp group also, okay
You have whatsapp you are added in whatsapp group
Uh share it there i'll pin there for anyone like if you see
Let's say if I open role-based
They have really
Man, I believe one who want to you know increase their followers on instagram like linkedin
They can use this site and they can keep on pasting roadmaps
Every day one post
Uh, it'll get good enough good amount of followers
But yeah going going into this one or what we have learned till now, okay what we have learned till now
Let's say we talked about front end right? Uh now
Even if you think like what we have learned if you think in front front end
We have covered this now. How does internet work? What is http domain name?
dns server browser how they work we have covered most of the topics isn't it
Hosting will learn when you deploy it when you go for build a project and deploy it
Right and when you go for html, we learned basic. What is semantic html?
We heard we learned form we didn't learn validation because we'll go learn validation only when
We know javascript
We are learning javascript
Then accessibility i've shown you, uh
SEO basics and accessibility while i'm trying to generate a report on a apple.com or youtube.com, but i'll discuss that in depth
Yeah hosting, uh is uh, yeah, you might have hosted it anket, uh, but there's a different ways, right?
How do you deploy front end back end and combination of them?
Uh, maybe a simple static project or a dynamic project. There are too many things in hosting
We'll see what all possible things are there
and when you
Come to css. We learned basics. We made our layouts. We made a responsive day designs
And when it comes to javascript, we learned basics now dom manipulation shashut will cover then i'll build projects once we learn dom manipulation
Fetch api will be introduced also and for git guys git, uh, those videos are added in archive section or not
Has anyone seen in archive section does git link is added. Oh
So
Okay, uh, i'll i'll do that i'll check with the team again, uh, i've asked them two times to add it, okay
So we'll do that and once it is added this part will be covered
then
Package managers, uh will be using npm package, uh node package manager, which is given by node.js
We're already using it when we execute using node, then we'll pick a framework we'll pick a for surely I think we'll pick a react
Okay
We'll pick a react then we'll start writing css. So we learned, uh tailwind css
Uh shared cnui is a great one, but we'll talk about this one later
Uh, we'll pick up tailwind. We'll also build a project using tailwind here and then we will go for css architecture
I've talked about bem. I've given you a you know article to read on bem. Did I
When we discuss css, right? So go with that one
Then css preprocessors, uh, i'll give you a high overview of what sas and post css are
Like how they use it. This is actually a compilation like how do you use it? Uh preprocessors
Uh
This is from a deployment point of view like not from writing code, uh, but how do you write it in a better way?
And build tools, uh will come to that step by step
Because these are like, uh depth in depth like when you understand this one
In testing, uh, we'll learn just
We'll learn just
Play write or strip press is out of scope. These are used for automation
um
Yeah, uh for bem article, right? Bem, uh
Bem
Let's say if you go for this one
They have a particular bem
Now you can practice this one
Where uh, we will be learning testing i'll introduce testing uncle like how do you can you do testing and i'll give you the roadmaps?
Like actually i'll give you more of a content where you can develop knowledge on it
Uh, because if I complete this we are covering at most all of the things that you see in this road map
Okay
I'll if if i'm not going to teach you something i'll help you out with how can you learn and how can you
Expand your knowledge on this
Play write
Yeah unit testing. Yeah testing as a unit testing, right?
We'll use a just a package here if someone is uh familiar with java
They might have used something like j unit, right?
j unit testing, uh
and for uh, uh like functional test
functional
test in spring
Functional test, uh framework
Okay
J unit is fine, but
There are other languages other I don't remember the exact one that we used it at paypal
Mockito is there mockito is for mocking but
But
Yeah fun, uh, no no maven is different thing maven is a build tool so
Seperous is used for automation testing guys like just in browser testing like you're not using it
But you are making an application to run it like you'll try to write a test
But you have to explore uh, even I at my office, right what I do
I write seplus test. I write j unit test. I mean using just also develop code. I write the documentation
So as a developer you have to do
Six seven things when you get the complete ownership of a particular thing, right? You're supposed to do all of those things
so
Learning like you have to learn this all these things are up to an extent authentication
We'll use jwt. I'll explain jwt completely
In depth oauth is something i'll give you a documentation to understand oauth is
Where you will learn like, you know login with google or gmail or anything, right?
Yeah
Yeah, full stack is actually completely bigger module guys to cover it, uh
right
so
I don't think web components are needed typescripts are needed as of now
Uh server-side rendering I can talk about it, but
Um as you as you will grow right as you'll grow over the ladder
um
You're supposed to know most of this guys you're supposed to know most of this
Because I see I use graph ql. I use server-side rendering initial page. I use typescript at office
Right next.js is somewhere. We are uh exploring it, uh, because we use simple react and we have our own crackin framework
But when xjs is we are in the uh
We are piloting it using again. Does anyone have heard of this one? Uh module federation
Someone experienced with react
So someone came across this module federation
Did anyone heard this earlier
So
uh
I'll talk about this once we learned uh react right once I completely teach you remind me that time. What is module federation?
Okay, how can you use this and what are the use cases when it comes across? Okay?
I'll talk about this one later, but not to pick it up right now, okay
Then yeah, see where I told you earlier right once you learn react and javascript you will be able to build application in react native
Which is a mobile-based application and for desktop, uh, there's something like electron
Electron.js that you can use for desktop web applications like you have flutter here
right
And even here, uh, if you see this is not completely things that we are going to learn
But there are more than this what we are going to learn if we go for node.js
I'll talk about node.js use history
Then i'll talk about node.js versus browser. This is something we have already covered node.js versus browser
Running code in node.js. We have covered
I do it every day
uh
I'll talk about error handling using debugger. I just showed you debugging right? How can you do it in debugging here?
then
Handling async errors even all this thing mostly will cover everything guys mostly on top of level it will cover everything
But if you want to go pick by pick by topic by topic
Maybe some things we have we won't be covering it, but most of the things we'll be covering it
Uh, we are going to build web projects since mobile apps are specific to react natives on with
Our responsive websites, we are going to build a responsive websites
But mobile apps are like native. It's up that
That framework we have to use there are some changes once you learn react native react native would be really easy for you
Okay, we'll learn mongoose document db
Right. We won't be using a relational db
And testing will use just
Again cpress is common across them mocha is common across java and everything for mocking it
Uh
Someone can learn memory leaks right garbage collection these two topics in depth
They're really great
Will understand fs, uh file system, uh, like library will understand paths
right
We'll use uh, like someone want to build a command line application they can use this process, uh arcs commander.js like
I've i've built one application guys if you want to explore right?
Uh, I just built something
Repositories
Your repository
I've used node.js one can explore this one. Uh, just i've did it last week itself
Something called as uh cron parser
I built a rest api
Backend application using node.js
only one api, uh
I also gave you here exported collection, uh that you can use it in postman directly
You can go here. You can see that it's an mvc structure. I have also added some test cases
I've also gave you a documentation that you could clone this, uh npm install run it
Run the test cases end points and everything. I've given everything like what it will does
You can do anything that you want again like we can build it we can explore that how we can do
So
Keep on building projects because I do it myself you can also do it
Yeah, yeah, you should do it
Guys, can we close the session?
I'll keep on talking
Trading bot, uh, it would be tricky. Uh
Okay, uh who will execute trades on my behalf, um, you know, uh other than that one ankit
I'll tell you something like if you can build one thing
It's just an interest some bit like you can do that now
I'll be busy for next week. All else. I keep on doing this in learning point of
Like let's say, uh web crawler someone did anyone?
Explore this one anytime in future. What is web crawler?
so
Uh somebody if you want to build a uh a tool which will execute trades for you, right?
but
For executing trades, you will need information
Like which stock to buy which stock to sell and when to buy when to sell
You need information to need if you need that information
Uh, you want to read maybe multiple business channels or news or anywhere something on internet, right?
So if you want to consume let's say on six seven websites
Or data, let's say if you want to understand buy signal, let's say there's an sell signal for hgfc or buy signal for hgfc
If you want to collect the data
From our different websites you have to build something like a web crawler or a sprider
That will keep on reading that sites and will give you the filtered information that which to buy which to sell
Let's say there are seven sites you are following in seven sites
They say that six six sites says that buy hgfc today and one will say that one won't talk about hgfc
So you'll get a clear idea that which one to actually do it. So you you should actually build a web crawler
Uh to get the information rather than like someone who is executing it
Okay. This is also a bot. Uh, you can explore in the images
I mean I got this from my one of the senior director who had built a web crawler
He does too much of trading
so
Like
He doesn't share the code actually but uh
Uh, but really insightful if you go and sit with those genius people, right?
They can explore web crawler. How does it work and how do how can you build it?
Okay, like web crawler url data url list and you can request an htm like you can do this process engine
Yeah
If you if you know, uh web crawlers are like
Uh products on web crawler like if you if you can build a
Uh, like if you want to build a business out of it, let's say
If you want to build a business out of it, how can you do it?
Uh, like if you have it, uh, let's say you could go you are the person who want to suggest
Someone to buy someone to sell you can explore this one
Like data extraction to like this is a data extraction to create webcaller like you pull the data out of it
Now they are also selling this information
see
Crawl and extract data from any website any language any script any location even location sensitive websites
They found a way to go into that website
Complex navigation structure complex javascript menu or pagination improvement bypass any bot protection
Bypass any bot protection these people are saying that we will spy data for you
Imagine if you can spy anyone's mobile like uh, there was something like uh, you know, if you remember, uh
That opposition of india had raised the clause that their mobiles has been spied, right?
Uh, their mobile has been spied and uh
uh
Pegasus pegasus right pegasus. Did you heard this word pegasus?
You know, they use something software called pegasus installed in everyone's mobile and uh,
Uh, they were trying to read the data now
What pegasus does?
Pegasus goes and sits on everyone's mobile
Mobile sits on everyone's mobile and it's crawling the data. Generally, it's reading the data whatever they are doing
It's so pegasus in a way
Is something
Uh web web crawler instead of web scrawler. It's an app mobile scrawler
So you can build those but you have to have
Is it not something it's a crime. That's why they shout it, right?
Okay
Yeah, yeah people does it know can I get password people does it but once you are caught you are inside the bar?
You can uh cannot you cannot go into
Uh, you know privacy privacy issues
Uh, like someone private a mobile is a private device, but you can go
You should understand norms like if you are even reading a data from some websites, right?
You should know that whether those websites are does not have any rules which are protecting their data
Let's say you go for get uh geek for geeks
uh
Now if I go for geeks for geeks and I read the post from it and I write a linkedin post on it
They won't uh, uh claim rights, right for that one
That hey you copied content from me you will I'll file a case against you or suit against you
If if they are doing those sort of things then you shouldn't go for their uh part while reading the content
So pegasus is not legal but company pays it because they do it without people knowing it
And they do it on something like an iphone which says that uh, you know protected device
You can do anything man if you have a list of learning right learning and exploring things and time
Time is a main factor
uh
I would say
You know focus on one path and be good at that one. You can do many things many many things you can do
but
focus on one part where you can
uh
Yeah, job is killing me. I agree. Okay, like that's that's that's uh, that's an issue, right you focus on one part and
Explore that go into depth understand it. You will do amazing jobs
right
but
If you keep on picking multiple 10 15 items, right you won't be learning one thing in depth and you will not be
Sure about anything I can talk about any topic, but if you ask me
What i'm good at
so i'll say that hey i'm
Good at what i'm teaching for sure and in depth like
But after me if I if I go into complete depth, right?
Even for a whole month stack i've told you when I went through that path, right?
I've seen like hey, I know this I know that I can teach this I'll teach that
This is something we have already covered. This is something we'll pick it up in future
So as soon as you focus as you focus on one thing on on you will be covering all those things
So don't divert yourself
Only once you have time enough time once you make good amount of money, then you can focus on 10 15 items if you have
So just think of anything in that way
So, okay, then i'll drop for today
Hope to see you next saturday then have fun. Good night guys. Take care
Keep learning keep solving assignments. Okay. So guys good night. Bye. Bye. Thanks. Thanks
You
