Hi all, guys, am I visible and audible?
Good evening, everyone. Can anyone hear me out?
Hi, Ramya. Thank you.
How's everyone doing, guys?
Great, great. Hi, Abhishek.
So, guys, have you received any invite for tomorrow's class management 12 p.m.?
Just wanted to check.
Right? Hope you make sure to be there, right?
Like, firstly, it will help you out to understand it. How do you manage time?
Is my video disabled?
Maybe, you know, can you recheck, refresh your screen?
OK.
So he'll actually help you to figure out his ideas, like, how do you can you manage time and building career path?
And one of the good news is that, you know, companies started hiring.
Microsoft is hiring, Amazon is hiring, Google is hiring again.
So most of the companies started hiring back.
It seems that economy is doing well after a year and year and a half layoffs.
It's a great thing, right?
For your batch, when I was taking my previous batch, there were layoffs going on and there was not much opportunities where available.
When you see from this man, thank companies, right?
And even there was a, you know, investment crunch from the start of point of view.
But for your batch, by the time we end our curriculum, you would be in the right position, right?
Where hiring will be happening and hope you keep preparing things, keep yourself good so that whichever opportunity wherever your resume gets shortlisted, you guys, you know, take the chance on it.
Actually, I have to.
So I have, have you, you know, build your resumes already?
Have you guys built your resumes?
It's challenging to focus on more than one module.
I completely agree with you.
I completely agree with you.
I agree with you.
So, you know, in tomorrow's seminar, what an instrument is taking, you can, you know, post these questions and he'll try to shortly answer from his perspective because he has seen more than, you know, you can at least 50, 60 batches.
Right.
You have seen people cracking it.
My experience lies in two batches.
But from my perspective, if I, if I say that how I'm multitasking, it's about like building a right calendar time, like sticking to the calendar that you build and focusing on that.
But do sure, do make sure that this like attend class tomorrow so that you will be, you know, getting further more clarity is how can you build your like even from the revision point of view, right?
You can question him like how's how's I'll be able to revise my things.
What's the right strategy?
What do you see that how people have done?
You can ask him about market as a job market and you can ask him about any queries you have.
But first thing is try to make sure that you attend a class and try to be interactive in that class so that, you know, you get more sort of it because he is giving you time.
Try to take, take as much as possible from his experience, whether building this company or like managing so many batches and too many things.
Right.
He has too many experiences, real time experience.
So leverage those things.
Actually, I'm checking for one more thing I have to talk on.
I'll wait for some time, but meanwhile, I'll search it.
So have you guys prepared your resumes?
Are your resumes ready?
It not yet.
So I see good people.
A good amount of people have already done it and a few people who haven't done it.
But let me know if you if screen share is working.
I'll talk more on that.
Is my screen share visible?
Right.
Let's put up some timer.
Then we'll start like once we have good amount of people.
Let's say this is the new version.
Isn't it?
I'll delete the old version some bit.
Let's say we have four minutes timer, then we'll start on it.
So.
Okay, right.
Great.
But guys just wanted to know whether have you again try to go to the SQL mock interviews?
Like how's your preparation going on that side too?
Right.
I'm from.
No worries.
I'll I'll I'll try to help you out in case if someone want a personal helping, right?
We can pick it up one resume end out session.
I can share my insights.
What I feel like you can guys you can also talk about others can also, you know, add on points.
It's like collective people working on a building a right format of resume.
Right.
So we'll try to do that from like just try to build one thing.
We can work on it.
We can build in iteratively.
Right.
So first first instance may not be right.
Always is like, you know, documentation is one of the difficult task to go for any software engineering.
Whatever features you might be working.
It would be really great.
Like I have done so many great releases in my projects that I've worked on.
But writing a release email right where you tag directors, senior directors that this feature is launched or this is something we have achieved.
That part becomes crazily difficult.
Right.
You try to review with the product team managers before sent topic and email.
So it goes through iteration right where you filter it out.
So same way bill your bill your resumes in case you wanted to want as a together like all people sitting together to review it.
We can do that and we can add our points.
Right.
It's a collective people learning so that it's a kind of a mentorship for each other plus and where we are helping us find each other.
So let's try to build that way.
I see 21 people in the class.
Let's drop a message inside guys.
What's up?
I'll drop myself.
Okay.
Is it okay to bluff a bit if you are confident on skill in resume?
So I wouldn't do that.
I wouldn't do that.
So let's say why I wouldn't do that.
I'll talk about like if guys please go to some which question in the chat first.
Like is it okay to bluff a bit if you're confident on skills in your resume?
So one of the thing is let's say you being a front end developer or the front end full stack month stack and you try to bluff that you know Java let's say you are if you say Java and there might be some person who might be really good with that language not with something mentioned in your resume.
If he sees that he'll try to kill you in that.
So it's always a safe side to write down only the things that you know and other things if you want to mention that I know this topics you can say that this is something that I have built content on it but no practical experience or not much experience in that domain.
So you can surely you have to mention that way like a different category in resume.
The skills that you are confident about the skills you're not confident about so that they you don't lose it like because you might be clearing three four rounds and five in the final round they might be questioning you something of a topic which are not confident on in your resume.
Because resume is generally not considered after getting shortlisted for initial rounds because initial rounds are like problem solving LLD, HLD when hiring manager comes then things plays around.
So try to be confident about things that you write in resume don't boost it up make it simple so so that we have to focus in a way that we have to build skills which are actually needed to crack that position or that to be a good engineer.
I mean down the path so that we focus on that if you focus on that framework it would be really helpful rather than writing something else.
Okay.
I hope I answered that some bit.
So I would say I won't do that.
So I see guys good enough amount of people are there but just want to reach out my screen share is working fine right you can see it.
Good.
So I'll talk about a few things guys.
Firstly, like you know resume building.
Firstly, let's say if I open, you know, a resume, a simple resume if you see it here, what this talks about this talks about the personal, you know details, a phone number, the LinkedIn account and the Gmail ID and the name and role they are in.
And this is for a fresher perspective, not someone who has experienced in their industry.
We'll talk about that in some time.
But if you see, we have mentioned skills and the projects they have built, or like the list of projects that we are building if you try to mention here, you can mention them.
And then whatever your achievements are there in your college, then education part of you.
Like let's say this is something.
This is good enough.
This your writing is like what whatever things you know you're writing all of them.
Okay, isn't it.
But what makes you stand out.
So firstly, let's let's.
I'll give you a chance to think like what what's missing in this firstly, what do you think it should be more if you know to make it more appealing what you what you should do.
Add bullets.
Anything else is anyone having any other ideas.
More projects.
Let's say project links.
Great.
Great.
So one of the things that I would definitely agree with this is that, you know, firstly, as somebody says that, hey, make it this bullet points are not writing like a paragraph as it try to, you know, mention it in the right format, then add more few more projects and keep those links deployed links, isn't it.
And this is what related to project section, isn't it.
Is everyone believing that this is not a writer's you may if you want to crack something friend and developer role.
This looks not complete, isn't it.
This is not an apt one like you yourself when you're able to take out points from that right.
It means that this is not completely fulfilled.
Okay.
Now, when it comes to skills, it's really important to mention all the skills, you know, because what happens is firstly, the resumes whenever you apply through, you know, on carrier portals on any portal.
Those are actually filtered by using some machines which are reading the content of your resume.
Okay.
So whenever you seek a particular hiring post like that hiring post for friend and skills or back and skills or anything skill any skill you should see what our skills are mentioned in those requirements like job portals job, whatever.
If you add, try to add the possible skills that you can add like react and JavaScript doesn't talk about everything we know HTML CSS also isn't it.
We should add that part like a I know that HTML and CSS are there.
If we add it more and if job whatever job opening says that it needs HTML CSS skills also and if those are matching your resume will be filtered and passed on to the HR in order to view it.
Hope this point is clear that firstly until you need to add all the amount of skill sets, then more amount of projects with deployed links and your GitHub links to is this point here is related to project section and skills.
Then, do you see do you see anywhere you are any profile like scale up problem solving for our profile or lead code profile or a GitHub profile being shared here anyway.
In source or anything so that need to be also mentioned in a resume because they should know because what happens right if you see many of the roles of Fang man company they mentioned that that we need people who are able to solve a section and algorithm.
Algorithm may not be a particular skills that you write down and inside the skills but how can you map it down into the resume that you have done it or you are good with that thing.
It's just that adding a lead code profile or scale a profile or any other coding platform profile right that gives you a instance that hey you have also solved the problem solving.
Okay, I've been a field pick it up your resume in the session just I'm focusing on the high level things as of now. Okay, I'll do that.
Okay.
Second thing.
Do you do you see here completely education details mentioned for Okay, this is fine. Mainly the things that matters right mainly the things matters your skills and the projects you have built and whether you are able to trying to fulfill the requirements of a job.
The first role is in order to pass your resume to HR is that you have to there's a in between filter, which is actually filtering your resume is based on algorithmic sets.
The algorithms actually try to filter based on the amount of skills mentioned and the projects you have done, and the point is that gives so it each and everything has a algorithm which keeps you the points for your resume if your resume gets more points that goes to the HR.
In the same way, even LinkedIn profiles are also set in such way. The reason we say that LinkedIn profile in the profile you should mention everything. If you remember many of the users say many of the people say that hey recruiter reached me out on LinkedIn.
For this particular job opening how that happens when you mention everything in your LinkedIn profile and someone recruiter searches like I need to hire people for this one, then LinkedIn filters by people are open for job, and then who's having the skill set and a particular company's lease.
So it's it's always needed that on your social media platform wherever you are presenting, you should be able to present yourself in a good way with at most like you know decency and honesty whatever you have.
Is this clear race.
Good. So let's talk about one of the you know properly built up to an extent so that there's nothing like you know resume which is completely perfect.
But let's say this thing what's happening what changes have been done here. Still, we give the role name and a person's name phone number now if you see LinkedIn GitHub lead code hacker and all these things were added, isn't it.
So all your coding profiles were linked up, then you have all the like you know skills, I would still suggest that HTML says it should be added, because that is also mentioned sometimes in your requirement skills required skills.
Okay, react and node just might be the top one sequel might be on the top one. But what if even get as one of the top one what if like the mentioned HTML says why not if you know that you can add it.
Okay, then if you go for project section or two projects were added fit this amount of the bullets points were added as some with mentioned earlier.
Now if you say GitHub link was also given and deployed URL, the URL doesn't work because there's a sample project link.
Now same way, you have a deployment URL, then the what this project is about doing up doing things, and this GitHub link right and if you see there's a one more thing what they have done.
Now if you're not mentioning skills that your actual skills, the projects tech stack used in that also you can mention the skills what you have leveraged.
You see this is purely built on murn stack. I would say not m murn stack because m goes from MongoDB there here we have used SQL DB right my SQL.
So here if you go for again a new app like task management mobile app like a to to list again they will react native and Firebase.
Okay, and when it goes to achievements again they added a few achievements and one of the core thing is right fix try to fix your resume in one page or not more than that.
Okay, guys.
I'll share this link. I'll tag this link so that you get to see this reference and build it.
So now can we get started with class guys.
I think I've talked more on this you may and one more one more time the announcement is that there is tomorrow you will be having a class at 12 o'clock taken me on children.
So try to please attend that you can ask any open ended questions related to job market or how do you want to revise content or preparation strategies or anything like that.
Any question that you have you are at most welcome there and to be you know ask the questions I do anything that you want.
Okay.
So try to be there and leverage as much as you can possible.
You are on mobile or on anything if you're traveling try to attend that class because that insights will really help you right.
Great guys.
Now we'll actually start with today's class which is.
I can say async.
Programming.
Okay.
Just a.
Right.
I'm not sure if this is right.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Great.
Great.
So now.
So now.
So now.
So now.
So now.
So now.
So now.
Great guys.
Now.
Well actually start with today's class which is.
I can say async.
Programming.
Class two.
Okay.
So now.
So now.
So now.
So now.
So now.
Okay, I'll talk about that when we used async keyword, I'll come to that when we talk it
but let's just revise the concepts that we have done in previous class that we have understood
something called as sync versus async code, is this point clear what is synchronous versus
asynchronous first like what is synchronous code versus asynchronous code okay now once we have
learned async code we have figured out that there is something which is dealing with your DB file
storage or let's say anything that like set timeout set interval all are async activities
the reason is that you are there is no finite amount that how much time it will pass in timeout
interval or the amount of time it will take to read from a file storage or the DB storage right
so whenever you are not sure that it might be executing right at that moment without anything
you that process all things goes into async activity then there is one more thing all the
events that you added in the DOM right all the event listeners event listeners
let me know guys
whether this is an async or sync activity
just let me know this what's your understanding on this event listener whether it is a
sync or async all the DOM elements you select a particular day or a button
click all those things right everyone says that sync process right most of them they say that
sync no let's let's again try to understand this i added a particular div dot add event listener
right i added an event listener onto it and i say that type of event it's a click event or
a callback function which a callback function now let me know whether
when this event will be fired first when this event will be fired when this javascript code
should execute it on click of this div right on click of this but is this js code will execute
like even if you are not clicking whether this js code is needed to execute it
do we need this code to get executed even if we don't click it no right so there are some of the
activities like let's say if i have a like you know code i have a page of code
i'm writing a list of things from top to down and i found an event listener and until unless
user doesn't click if i have to you know this this thing to be there if i if if this parsing
gets stuck here where we had an event listener the code will again hang right
are you able to relate that event listener is attached but we cannot store that in call stack
so this is again removed from call stack put it into the browser apis which is providing
your dom apis out of that window object document api right so this all the listeners are actually
async process because there is part of code doesn't execute instantly like set timeout
whatever callback function you write in set timeout doesn't execute instantly
right it waits for some amount of time timer is given here this is waiting for click event
like until as you click it this callback need not to execute isn't it so all this activities
goes into async process is this clear all the user events are also somehow are async process
so guys is this point clear are you able to understand why this event listeners are async
in nature anyone who are not able to clear this let me know like if there is anyone who are not
able to connect this dots so one thing i would say that okay heimangi says repeat it now heimangi
please if you if you if you see that code whatever we have written when we are dealing with dom
there's a series of code which are instantly executed like constant functions everything
but when you add an event listener let's say this is a page which is having this button a submit
button until unless you don't click this button this event won't be fired right this event won't
be fired now when this event is not fired why would you need this to execute instantly it need
to be only executed when you click that button so for that reason this won't be you know executed
instantly this will be removed and put into into browser api list that only when someone is clicking
this event will call that function put it into the callback you and then put it into the call
stack to execute it because this is a delayed operation this is operation not being done right
right moment right away okay it is not being done right away it is waiting for that user action
like that user is clicking user action sometimes there might be a situation where we are
programmatically telling that they should this operation should happen after some time
here user is deciding when this event will happen so we don't know what time till what time we have
to wait sometimes user might not even click it right some so when there is no amount of like
this code this piece of code should be only executed when this is clicked so we should we
can say that this is like a acting like a timer until user clicks it this won't execute if user
clicked it this will be executed i hope you understand the same monkey okay so these all
are async activities now after this we have also understood one more topic called event loop
did anyone went through that visualizer and explored it guys that link that i've shared in
last class so did you understood how event loop works
right i hope that event loop is also clear we have a call stack
and then we have a browser list apis
nodejs apis where you have document api set time or type thing things will be put it in here once
the work is done they'll come into two of the tasks microtask queue and callback queue
right both will be subscribing to this then there's an event loop which is actually trying
to sync it here and will be putting into the call stack once call stack is empty
this is what we have understood in last class right now right there we'll start with today's
class now no how many of have you gone through this code in last class how many of you understood
through this code in last class how many of you understood what callback hill is last class
are you able to follow up with this callback hill concept whatever i've told you
it's like let's let's try to this visualize in further mode since let's take an example of
a burger like if you want to let's say you go for mcdonald's or you have gone to any burger shop
uh burger king anything we know that what basically how to make a burger isn't it there
are a few basic set of things and those are the set of activities let's say if you want to make
a burger what could be the first step guys what could be the first step let's say that we are
building a burger if you want to build a burger let's just state it out what are the series of
steps what it will take selector type that's let's say let's say we are trying to
let's say we are making an aloo tikki
okay aloo tikki burger take the bun but before the bun before the bun do we need to
build that aloo tikki firstly
right so firstly what we'll say that in order to build aloo tikki we'll say that prepare
all the ingredients right whatever ingredients are needed
once we have those ingredients we will be able to cook that patty right whatever tikki is needed
once we have this then what we'll do we'll assemble a burger
i'm actually not building a burger which is made in mcdonald's because they add too many things
sauces and everything i'm making a something that you see on a roadside street right they
add aloo tikki they put a two bits and they give it to you
let's say once you assemble a burger you also have maybe let's say you are adding some seasoning
on it you can say that adding condiments condiments is like whatever flavors or extra
things that you are adding then you serve burger right so this is what we'll do we'll say that
condiments is like whatever flavors or extra things that you are adding then you serve burger
right these are the series of steps isn't it
so let's say that if you want to build this example let's say what if you
because these are all are firstly if you say these all are asynchronous process isn't it
all things might take some time and it might not be instant
right so let's say building a burger itself is an asynchronous but it will take some time to build
a burger right or get a burger and serve it to the user if you go to burger shop you give an order
it doesn't come instantly to you right it takes some time that is your order is placed will get
you once it is done so it's a real life event now let's say if you want to build this what should be
an activity okay i'll take a class
class 25
to burger.js firstly we have four events that are happening specific events let's say i have a
function called prepare ingredients
okay and these ingredients might take some time yeah burger king.js let's make that one
this is a roadside burger king burger king if you want to code it for burger king it's really
difficult but yeah fine anyways let's say if you want to prepare ingredients it will take some time
now to fetch all the ingredients let's say it will take some amount of time
say
console.log
so i say that ingredients prepared okay
cool now once i prepare this burger let's say how much time it should take guys how much time it
should fetch it in order to fetch your ingredients let's say give it some seconds that in this
this amount of seconds will take it to get all the ingredients for preparing a
techie let's say can i say 2000 seconds 2000 milliseconds okay now once this is done
okay now once this is done let's say then you have function cook pt where you're trying to build
like you know pt actually let's say again you have a set timeout you have a function
a callback function and let's say here you are trying to
confirm that pt is cooked or pt is ready
okay once this is done let's say this this also takes 2000 seconds it would generally take more
amount of time to actually fry it and get it done but let's take another example another function
another function where you are trying to assemble all these things with buns and everything okay
assemble burger
say set timeout
you have a function where you are trying to console.log
say i say that burger is assembled
and this thing let's say it takes 1500 milliseconds
once this is done last thing you have is actually adding seasoning like you can say condiments
again let's say i try to take this put it here
add it once this is done let's say you have function serve burger
in order to serve let's say it's an instant process because this need not to wait burger is served
okay these are the list of functions that are you know let's say all things are async functions
now how would you build it if you let's say if i want to do one activity after the other
how would you build this how would you you know put it in you know activities like how it's
possible to do it in all in one way like one after the other series like doing it in series
if you remember we have done the same example here earlier where we're executing one after
the other same thing we have to do it here but any ideas guys like how can you actually make
it in a sequence here is that after ingredients only you have to cook the patty after cooking
the patty you have to assemble the burger after cooking assembling the burger then only you have
to add seasoning or the giving a tomato sauce separately or then you have to serve it how
can you make this things works in series any any idea anyone having any idea on this
this
any idea guys how can you make this call function inside a function now which function you would
call first prepare ingredients let's say you call this function prepare ingredients
inside this function what function you would call
right let's say if you want to call a function inside prepare ingredients let's say you will say
that hey cook the patty first isn't it cook the patty now if you call this cook the patty
you have to pass a callback here right this callback need to be received firstly a callback
function and this callback should be executed here isn't it now once this callback is received
inside this you will again call a new function now next function that you would call is after
cooking the patty you will assemble a burger isn't it and even this cook patty will take
again a callback function and this callback function should execute it after after only
once the patty is cooked and this callback is actually assembling the burger once you assemble
the burger what you can do you can actually add condiments isn't it now if you go back here again
a callback function again a callback function called right once this is adding condiments on
then you actually go and serve the burger right again if this is receiving a callback function
let me pass a callback and this is executed now how many of you are able to understand this code
like firstly did you understand this code guys is there anyone in the class who didn't understand
this code what is happening here guys please let me know if there is anyone who didn't understand
this one okay i hope everyone is under or able to follow up so if you see this is what a callback
hell looks like this is a series of let's say just a burger with which is simple burger if you let's
say if you want to cook a biryani or if you want to build the actual system right which will be
like looking like you know one function inside another function another function then at least
functions will keep on going now this reduces the amount of readability and like it is difficult
to understand the process and if someone new comes it will be really you know messed up logic
to understand how things are done what things are done so this is what we call it as a callback and
then there is a second problem also now what if what if say that you know assembling burger is
it's actually done by a different department if that department you
your department is actually focusing on building a pt
ingredients and pt and you pass this as a cooked pt to a different department who is actually
assembling the burger now when you are doing that activity you are actually giving your the pt to
him you don't know whether that will be take you know taken care right so you are actually
depending on them so this is like inversion of control where you are actually giving the control
to the other person and he is deciding how to use your pt right so that's also a difficult
difficulty faced when you see this in the callback help issue okay so now if this point is clear i've
given you two examples one is with you know a file system then the another with this burger example
like how does callback hill actually increases you know complexity for this in javascript a new
concept called promises were introduced but before going to promises i just want to recheck
if there is anyone who didn't understand callback if everyone is able to follow up then we'll go to
promises okay i don't see any reaction so i'll take it as a no that i hope you are all are able
to follow up now let's say we explore about something about promises
now what is a promise in general guys what do you think meaning of promises
what if it take more time some with i didn't get your point what if it takes more point than this
whatever mentioned time is that what you are talking about
okay so this is like their own function right i've built a cookie i've built a pt
the other other team will take care of themselves so this is there it's a custom thing they can
make it anything because they can give a maximum time right
it
so guys let's come back here what is a promise in general what do you mean by promise actually
i'll mute for a second
so
keeping words as promote
right
something which need to be kept right or can i say a kind of a commitment
a commitment right so that's a one word which defines a promise now this is also
you know the word promise was selected for this one itself now all the async activities right all
the async activities major set of async activities come you know all the async activities actually
return type now if you see a return type of a particular this value we say that string
23 return type is number in the same way in javascript whatever return type if let's say
there is some async activity is happening for all those for all those activities right all those
events the return type is promises now why why they are doing a promises firstly it's that you
should understand that this is an async activity this is a time taking event we don't know whether
this will be completed or not someone gave us a word that hey i'll complete it but we need to know
that right when whether it is either he has fulfilled or not for that reason each async
activity have a two things one is result one is error
so all async activities in javascript whichever you see async activities mostly all of them have
a return type of promises and each promise generally does two things whether it fulfills
a promise or you know it is not able to fulfill the promise is this logic clear guys what are
actually promises so all for what generally remember that whatever asynchronous operation
is happening for that there is a return type which is promises right as you have string and
number and array and everything then it returns two things now if i let's say that i promise you
that i'll help you guys to deliver so and so thing or try to achieve some so and so thing
i can either actually do it or i cannot do it maybe i'm standing by my word or i'm not standing
it but if i'm delivering it a result like whether let's say if i'm if i'm we are able to do that
task i'll say that okay we have done it if not i'll ask for a forgiveness that's also a result
but there are two types of results one is either failure or successful response this is clear
this point now in this promises also it goes through series of steps
okay this goes through a series of steps now what those what what are those series of steps
first is pending state
let's say you went to again a burger shop mcdonald's you given an order that promise
whatever you have paid and payment you received an order slip that made a promise right for this
transaction for this trade i'll give an burger but you have to wait for 10 minutes it's in pending
state isn't it first point that that state is pending that burger is not yet delivered to you
second thing is something called as resolve
when i say resolve i mean to say that the burger is actually delivered to you okay we can say this
step as promise is fulfilled what i mean to say that whatever i've told you i'll deliver you the
burger you are you have paid that money so this is your burger ticket okay so if not if not let's
if not let's say in the process of meantime when you have ordered a burger and there's
some technical issue with the machines or something got jammed then they might not
you know complete their order right they might not be able to complete the order
so then your order might be rejected then you might be refunded the amount isn't it but we can
we will say that promise is unfilled right promise is not fulfilled this particular burger shop is
not reliable can we say this these are the three states first is pending then either it is
successful or failure now the last step is once a series of actions is completed then comes something
called a settled so when i say settled yeah you can say when we say settled is that event is
completed what do i exactly mean by that i've uh kabir says is having a network challenge guys
anyone else is having a network challenge uh okay give me a second guys my
i can show you let's say internet speed
you see i'm getting three mbps more than five six mbps sometimes it is lagging okay
but if if it is happening let me know i'll try to rejoin okay
okay cool but now if all the process is completed whether order is taken or you know your order is
placed then one order is delivered or they couldn't deliver but after all the process then
this event one particular event is closed isn't it one particular event is settled the order is
one particular event is settled the order is stated
yeah it's an async right it's a stream it's a stream of bits bits of streams okay
but is this are you able to catch up this thing guys this particular flow
whatever i've spoken about like a promises flow now let's say if i try to draw down the chart
okay firstly an execution is happening and when the execution is happening first state
comes is pending then after the pending you have two things either you have resolved
a particular promise or you fail to do it so your promise is rejected then
you have common state called settled so this is a flow of a promise now each promise having
it's a it's an object guys again promise is also an object so this object generally have two things
one is actual value let's say actual value is a burger that you are expecting to deliver then
there is a state the order status you can say the order status is this list of things
okay pending resolved rejected or settled is this clear is this theory clear enough what is a promise
okay now okay
so this is from a if you see this is from a
till now if you have understood the burger example this is happening from shop point of view
okay since these people are producers
right these people are producing the data and they're giving us the value of the item and
they're letting us know the status of item but we what we are we are as a customers we are consumers
now how can we consume the promise consuming a promise is also a tricky isn't it like how can we
receiving a burger from a actual shop is like either you pick it up you have like there are
two types of things right there are self-service there is something like a waiter is coming and
giving it to you right there are different types of things happening in our different
types of things happening in our different burger shops so if a particular the way to accept this
data is there whatever you have it from the consumer's point of view there's two things
that you have to do one of the thing is like once again you are once you are having a consumer you
have two things right first is resolved if order is delivered you will react in some way if order
is rejected you will react in some other way isn't it firstly so when your actual order is resolved
you say that i'll receive in dot then method okay i'll talk about this once we see the code
or else we when order is rejected we say that catch that person and let's ask for the refund
okay this is what a theory looks like but let's let's see from the coding point of view and we'll
come back to this theory again review this one so that we understand this completely again
okay uh let me create a file called it says script dot j s or let's say promise dot j s
let's say promise dot j s
now once i create this no the way to let's say if i'm writing first what i'll write is i'll write a
something called as producer code okay now who are the producers producers are something like
burger shops okay now let's say uh i i i'll take a pretty much simple example let's say i have a
a promise which is built okay now in order to build this again you have to call a
constructor function called a promise itself once you call this promise you have a callback
function inside this because this process this new promise constructor is actually producing
as a promise now this while it is trying to produce it can do two things either it can
actually resolve our promise or it can reject our promise okay now
if let's say now when we'll say that consider let's say i take a simple example const equal to 5
if const be equal to 4 so if i say that let's say if i say that if a equal to
double equal to b then i'll call like then i'll call something called as resolve
i'll say that resolve resolve that yes both a and b are equal
okay else i'll say that hey reject this promise
saying that both are not equal now what this promise current promise this object is
promising us that it will compare it will compare whether this from
these things which are which are there inside it whether they are equal or not
now let's say i try to console lock this promise
we'll see a different states of promise here and this is a producer code
a producer is actually trying to produce a new promise and is giving us resolve and reject
whether the particular promises like a burger is delivered or that burger is rejected because
they will also have the history right stored in them now once this is done the way of consumers
the way we are the consumers let's say if we want to consume this item one thing we have to do is
like let's say promise dot then once i have this and i take a callback function i'll say that
inside this i'll have a data let's say whatever data i'm getting it i'll try to console lock
okay then there can be an also use case where you have to you your promise can be you know
fail so that in that cases you will get an error let's say console dot log who try to print error
okay guys is this example clear firstly from logical point of view let's run this and make it
further clear okay now i'll try to clear this node promise dot js
now if you see it here what just happened what just happened here is that
the promise if you see the state firstly the promise went through a state called
rejected state i need to sign to print something all both a and b are not equal
uh guys uh is it class got stuck
it's fine okay you got stuck i mean uh try to refresh finish for once okay so
this in the output if you see here what just happened in the output is promise is actually
uh rejected because this promise a and b are not equal now and this actually printing is actually
happening from a place where this console log is being printed and it is printing both the things
if you see a state and the value as we have already told that it will store two things a state and a
value and something that we are trying to output here in the error is that both a and b are not
equal that is the message we are getting isn't it now what just happened now let's say this if i try
to put a here so then and catch are automatically called according to resolve right right right
something so uh let's see this if i try to put a debuggers and execute this one again
and i'll show you the states of different things how these things are actually changing
okay now if you see it here first thing on the left side as i've told you firstly is a promise
have our two things one is state and result okay now the it says that it is rejected so it is
actually resulting us now then when you're consuming it the way to consume a rejection in
order to consume a rejection you can do it at dot catch in order to uh accept the right response
successful response you can use dot then okay this is how it works like directly it goes into
the dot catch okay if you see the error message also we are able to get this that we are getting
whatever it is needed and we are able to print it okay now then there is a one more thing guys
in order to improve the syntax right the better way of writing syntax is if you see i do that promise
dot then uh let's see i take this
and you can write directly catch here
console dot log error so this is a syntax where you actually write on a promise itself you are
adding a two things a dot then block and a dot catch dot catch block instead of writing it
separately you can do it on a one thing and this is what we call it as a a promise chain and the
chain can be a number of n number of activities now if you think in terms of a burger objective
the chain can be really big we'll come to that example but is this clear like what actually
how the promise is handed and how do we create a promise
right now let's take and as i told you that you know if you see if i hover over it the colon
whenever we say that you know this is a return type of any function right now let's say if i
go over over even in the promise constructor you know you will be seeing that you know return type
is promise any right so actually anything that if you see let's say weather app right where was the
weather app code uh guys do you remember when which class we have discussed weather app
uh
class 13
just let me check
yeah if you see it here there's a weather app inside that script i haven't moved into project
summit so i'll fix that i have to add that but now if you see in weather app you might have seen
you're trying to make an api call to fetch the data for a particular city isn't it
now this fetch call is actually doing but now if you see here what is the return type of this
fetch call what is the return type of this fetch call
it's a promise right so all the async activities whichever are mostly all these things are actually
you know are returning you a promise so in order to consume a promise you have the way to use it
like a dot then and dot catch is this example clear guys now if you if i make it this file
now you will be able to see that we are able to actually take execute it in a right way if you
see here the what is up current promise state it says that fulfilled and yes both are equal
right it will go into dot then block and execute it okay now
i hope this logic is about promises is clear now let's go back to again here
so what we have understood is that for async activities mostly in js you will see that
it's a promises so for promises there are something like let's say producer
and you have a consumer
in order to produce you do something like new dot promise
where you actually have our two functions resolve reject now depending on a particular
condition you either resolve either you reject right if you want to handle a resolve you use
even dot then here in the consumer process if you want to reject it and reject you use dot catch
is the concept clear guys what is promise and how do you deal with the promises
okay i've done a simple example i'll show you with the burger example that how we do it
layered chaining structure right let's see that one firstly we'll solve that burger one
okay and there is a one can anyone firstly go and check what's the definition in the browser
like let's say if i go and open promises in js javascript and i open this okay
okay if you see it here what this talks about
are you able to relate this definition now please read it through once in your mind that a promise
object represent an eventual completion or a failure of async operation and resulting value
you so we say that we ordered a burger it might be either completed or delivered or it might fail
it right and it's depending on that it will be will have a resulting value in order to handle
as we have said that you know three states pending fulfill rejected also you have a settled something
okay if you see here what just happening they are trying to actually create a promise and the pending
state then you try to actually accept it dot them or that dot cash block okay simple and straight
forward you can see this go through this documentation or any documentation that you
want you will be able to understand with all these examples but let's let's go back and
explore a few more build that burger example guys let's build that burger example now if you see
in order to fix this burger example what do you think it we should be doing it
let's say i create a new instance called
burger king promise
don't chase let's say this is a burger king promise dot js so firstly let me
pick up this list of functions that we have
okay but firstly this is from a sharp point of view isn't it firstly these are doing a set
timeout activity some bit we have to convert this into promise in order to
this producer should be actually giving us a return type should be promise isn't it
right so let's let's fix that one firstly let's fix that one how can we fix that one
okay one of the way to fix this one let's say i'll write it an example below itself so that you are
able to see what it is actually doing it okay i'll comment this logic and you will be able to relate
this one now what i'm doing so since this it should be returning a new promise i'm actually
it should be returning a new promise i'm actually returning a promise data type
inside that again i'll have a function which will actually resolve or reject
inside that now what i'll do in order to handle this one let's say i say that
after a particular time after a particular time now since they are not making a network call
i'm still using the set timeout after a particular time let's say this is same
thing is happening ingredients are prepared and that time is still let's say 2000 seconds
is this clear guys what just we did it and this thing set timeout should be going into what state
after ingredients have you prepared what we should call we should call resolve isn't it
and i can say that try block
and while you are trying it let's say while you're building this ingredients
if there is some issue happened then what you can do you can add a catch block
and you can say that rejected
it
is this clear guys what i just stated here while preparing while getting the ingredients
if i'm able to do it i'll get the resolve if there is an issue while getting it anything
then i've rejected error okay here we were just returning in set timeout now but now we are
returning a new data type called promise okay let's do it for the same as a pt that's how i
copy this i keep it here i comment this logic now firstly i return new promise which will take this
once we go inside this let's say i'll have our try and catch block
now inside catch block i'll actually reject it error but if i want to resolve it i'll take this
instead of callback i'll call resolve right now i'll remove this callback function now let's say
that i do it same thing for the assemble burger i copy i keep it here i comment this again and
copy i keep it here i comment this again i return a new type of promise
inside this promise let's say what i'll do is that again try and catch block
i'll do reject error and while resolving i'll resolve after a particular set timeout
now let's try to do this one for add condiments
write a new promise resolve
reject
let's say inside again i have try catch
block
once i have this i'll put this into the again try block i'll call here once we are
condiments are added i'll call resolve now this is a simple sync activity so burger but say
serving burger i'll keep it same but now what i'll do that i'll remove this commented piece
of code so what we have done we have completed the producer code now we'll go for consumption
now guys let's see how we can consume it firstly we know that prepared ingredients in order to
consume this prepared ingredients we can do something called as prepare ingredient start
then block is it inside then block we will be able to get whatever we need it firstly
let's say call this function then i'll be able to catch then right inside then what i'll do is that
i'll call cook patty okay inside that cook patty i'll do like dot then again okay then i'll say
that once patty is cooked i'll call assemble burger then i'll say again dot then then i'll say
something like add condiments then i say that then after adding condiments i'll say that serve burger
then i'll say if there is an any issue anywhere catch that error
let's say error
now do you see this like in order to build but you know cook the burger we say that prepared
ingredient then cook the patty then assemble the burger then add whatever condiments or
seasoning you want to add then serve the burger this looks better or this looks better
just think of it
let's say burger king one and burger king
right from consumer point of view since we are most of the times we are not creating promises
we are actually consuming it if you see this looks like a callback inside a callbacks again
inside a callback i'll be just passing inside a callback now here what we are saying is that
we are we are again if you see when we are we are saying that hey once your ingredients are
ready then cook the patty if cookie is cooking patty is done then assemble the burger once
assembly of burger is done then add the seasoning once seasoning is done serve the burger so this
gives a better readability and clarity when user sees that hey what is actually happening isn't it
do you guys agree with me
so i hope you got a just of what promises are how do you handle or create a promises
what i'll do is that we'll take a break guys here we'll come back from a break and we'll try to do
something like if you see remember in last class when we you know played around with a file system
right when we played around with the file system we were actually using a callback help
or we were doing in a sync activity right we are doing either synchronous or asynchronous
while doing asynchronous we used a callback loop but we'll solve this using a promises and
we'll see so that we'll add one more example and we'll see like how it can be done better
okay guys so do you want to break take a break or should i continue it's your call
call
just let me know if you want to do you need a break guys
i see one okay five minutes or somebody says continue tejal says continue
so if uh race please give me thumbs up if you need a break if you need if you don't need
give me thumbs down because we'll we can end the session in less amount of time
okay
in that case let's let's do this uh in that in that case let's do this guys
i have got too many words guys tejal and uh triyanka so let's let's do this okay i won't
be taking much amount of time today so we'll build this again in order to build this let's
say again i have three files uh f1.txt let's say i copy this files guys
copy and i try to paste it here
there
now i have three files and what i'll do is that i'll create a file
file system.js it's i have this inside this now if you remember the way to read file what is a
module that we need if you remember which system actually which is a library that helps us to
play with the file system fs right let's say i have const file system
say i what i'll do is that
you
uh
guys i'm
okay
so some with basan says let's take the break then continue guys
so whoever is like you know uh if if you wait for 20 minutes we can end the session guys if
you wait for 20-25 minutes okay now but here if you see it uh inside the promises right
in fs system we had a melting method like promises where you can add methods related to promises
here inside this i have read file now let's say if i want to read a file
dot let's say uh the path that i need to give is something like f1.txt isn't it now inside this
file if i want to handle this the way to handle we know that once we let's say if we store this
content whatever let's say here uh i can say that i'm getting something i'm getting here is promise
one f1 promise is something returned here once i have promise now this fs system is actually taking
care of building a promise like resolve and reject here we are just consumers since this method
if you see if you go inside this method
let me go inside this method i'll show you the code if i'm able to access now if you see here
return type is promise of buffer data now as i told you that whenever there is an async activity
the return type is promise itself and it is a it is giving us a stream of buffer data where you
will be each file will be receiving some bits of data step by step okay now you can explore how
this actually read file is being done you will be able to see resolve and reject actually being
used inside that okay now once i have this now let's say i've got this promise in order to
handle this promise i have to use something like dot then and dot catch isn't it now let's say
inside this dot then i have a function called a file uh let's say why will it file let's say this
inside the dot then i write a callback function called file data and try to print simple console
log file data i'll make it two string since we know that it's a buffer what is whatever returning
in order to continue the convert into data i've used like two string and if there is a failure
while making it again i'll have a error i'll say that console dot log error two string okay now
let's say this executing if this works firstly open an integrated terminal node file system dot js
okay now if you see it we are able to read data from the file one let's say if the file we have
file one two and three what if i make file six okay we we show that we know that if there is
something breaking happening we know that it can be written in try and catch block if there is
something which is not there we are trying to read it should return as rejected promise and it
should go into the callback this cache block right let's see this if this is happening do you see
here it is printing an error saying there's no such file or directory open f6.txt is this more
readable and understandable guys way of dealing with promises or using a callback structure
what do you think uh is better like if i show you the different versions of it whatever we have
written for the same use case
if you see here let's say this is the process that we have written fs
since this is the same async activity i'll try to divide it now
now
if you see it here once we got the promise we are just handling using .lin and .clash here
we are not writing a callback function or we are not extending functions inside the function
so this is better really isn't it whatever promise you are in either it be successful or error
that's simple way of handling do you like this code of promises are you enjoying it understanding
it better than the callback structures okay now let's try to replicate this right let's try to
replicate this for all the files so what i'll do is that i'll you know i'll build some common
reusable functions now let's see that what reusable functions i'll build it i'll say that let's say
read file i'll build a method called read file what this will do is that let's say i have a
function which will give me the file path once i have the file path what it will does is it will
you know make a call to this system itself
let me close this add it here and i'll say that this is a file path
okay and let's say i also have why did we use new promise in the function but directly from your dot
promises here i'll come to that something i'll come to that first again i'll revise the concept
so that you will understand it completely now let's say i have a method called read file
callback
success
success
here i'll have let's say file data
i'll console log
file data
file data dot to string
now after that we have error case
error console dot log error error okay so i have three reusable method now what i'll do is that
not to make it simple i'll comment this code i'll say that a read file inside the read file i'll
have to pass this f1.txt
f1.txt once i have this i can say that dot then inside this dot then i'll say that
read file callback success or dot catch
callback error okay this is one way then let's say if i copy and paste it
so i have f2.txt then f3.txt okay once i have this let me
rerun this one and show it to you guys that this works in the same way as earlier
now if you see it here we are still getting the file one file two data and file three data also
the file one file two data and file three data also
this looks better cleaner code isn't it do you guys feel that that this looks clean firstly
compared to the earlier codes now if you want to make this
work in series how can you do this guys
yes are you able to understand this example did you understand this example
okay i see one thumbs up other people if there is anyone who is not able to understand let me know
okay i just made it simple you know a particular activity you can do with
a number of ways so i've tried to make it as simple as it can be
okay put f2 in dot then f1 right okay like kabir says in order to do it in a sequence activity
put f2 in dot then of f1 how many of you think that would solve the issue
right now let's say that if we if we do this one how it would be look like
let's say i'll do that read f1 dot txt f1 dot txt i say dot then inside this dot then firstly
i'll try to call this success then i'll say that hey return read file
f2 dot txt
is entered this is what we are supposed to do then this particular firstly when this this is
resolved and this particular thing is returned and this will be once can be resolved or can
throw error so if that is but f2.txt is getting resolved then you will have again a dot then lock
inside dot then you can again call two things
read call file callback success then you can say that return read file dot is this one then again
once you are able to read it then you will have a callback which will have read callback success
and all if this all these things are successful then we have to do something firstly
since this accepts our data let's pass on the data here
say i have our data i pass on the data and let's say i also receive the data here
here
i pass on the data here once i have done then i can add one common catch block if there is
an error in the whole process it will execute here itself
if first file it is get caught an error then it won't read other file yes it won't read it will
stop let's say while operations are happening now just think of this way kabir is that let's say
while this read file f1.txt is happening while it's reading if it's failing an error it will go
directly into the catch catch block it won't go into next then if while reading this f2.txt
if while reading this f2.txt if it is failing it will go into directly catch
is that clear kabir like how this will work
let's say let's say if i i'll show it let's say if i'm trying to read directly here
firstly i'll show that whether this is working or not in order to do that thing i what i'll do is
that i'll remove this one i'll go to this and i'll try to comment this piece of code okay
and re-execute this one i'll show you other all the options guys if you see it here
what i'm getting f1 f2 f3 those are like in sequence now let's say if i want to read in
between f6.txt which is not there now let's say where it get fails where it get fails
if i do it if you see the file one promise got resolved and then when the file to this one
this is getting actually executed this returned an error which there is no file present with
fc.txt in the directory then it directly goes into dot dot catch block
okay is this point here like it won't it will stop the execution there itself it will go into
the catch block and stop it firstly okay and your point but if you want f2 operation then how it will
yeah so firstly i didn't get your point completely kabir that what you exactly are asking there
uh so maybe somebody is trying to reply if you if you have the any question we can discuss that
question no issues but guys do you see this how easy it was like in order to deal the promises
now there was an example there where we build a callback hell like you know for the same same
thing we have built a callback hell do you remember this example where we are actually
we are actually building one thing inside the other in the last class like first we are trying
to read f1.txt then f2 then f3 we are handling error case and success case for both of them
and we have optimized this one in a such a way that you know simple three dot thens where
if this is successful this one if this is successful then this one right so i've shown
you two ways like individually reading the promises i need not to make it them in
like sequence how can you do it how can you deal with this one okay and also we have
discussed a burger example how do you actually handle it okay how do you you know handle both
of the use cases so i just want to check if there are any doubts on this content like
if there are any please try to you know
ask so that i'll take some doubts on this then i'll talk about some more points
guys is promises concepts clear to you and some with you had a question earlier like
like why did we use new promise in a function but directly dot promises here okay so firstly
okay let me use this callback error here
okay firstly let me know this file read file are we building this rate file or this is already built
for us this library already built right and this file is supposed to return us promise isn't it
right which we can accept i mean there is a shop they already provide there is a burger shop
already built right so we are not taking up responsibility of building a promise here we
are actually consuming the process promise we are not a producer here so already we are receiving
the promise here if you see the return type is already a promise so here we have to make a call
and just accept it in a dot then and dot catch until unless we are not building it until unless
we are not yeah every object every asynchronous operation will have an promise that's why i've
shown you earlier in the earlier class when you have discussed weather weather app you see the
fetch call also had a return type of promise here also you are actually consuming it we are most of
the time from the client side we are actually consuming most of the asynchronous activity but
we are not actually creating most of them you will create really less amount of times that you see
if you go through the js code but you will be consumers you will be mostly consuming it now
okay i hope this point is clear now i have a question guys to you all that let me know
in function we are building it right if you are producing it then you have to build use it
so there's just two two parts right somebody as i said you that no either you are a producer or
a consumer if there is a function which is already producing a promise you are just consuming it
isn't it as we have seen that read file is actually a producing a promise giving us a promise we are
using dot them and dot catch on that but if we are building a if we are producing some piece of
code and if someone is using that piece of code let's say this piece of code something you have
created and this is this piece of code returning a promise like in the burger example we have seen
then this is supposed to this is a producer code and someone when he's consuming he'll
consume using a dot then and dot catch again okay
i hope this points are clear guys now now i have another question guys a basic question we have
discussed event loop in the last class now just let me know where this promises should go in
it went from call stack even put into some browser list api's then you have two things two things
here microtask queue and callback queue so in which thing it will go this will go into this
will go into this it will go into this microtask is from so
right so we have seen example where that all the api data right whatever promises you are resolving
most all of them go into microtask you and microtask you have a higher preference than
callback you so all the items which are present here in the microtask will be executed first
okay so let's see that example again for a second we'll revisit that example once
okay that's our first example itself if you see it here promise dot resolve is something there
somebody is resolving this let's say directly dot using dot then okay we have log a
because log is directly called it will be printed right then we have a log b a set timeout has been
created so it will went into the callback queue or the task queue now that is waiting for timer to
expire and it will wait there now then we have promise dot resolve dot then so this is a promise
so we don't know how long it can take it's can be server timer server you know related data so it
wins again into the microtask unit waits there then log d will be called and d will be printed
then after we have something like you know you here comes the priority order if you see here
microtask you will get the higher priority compared to the task okay now the inside the
microtask you all the promises promises when i say that you can say whichever whoever function is
returning with a promise or the return type is promise of any function or the fetch functions
whenever you are making an api call that api calls goes and sits in a microtask you once those
call is successful it come it once the call stack is empty it gets higher priority to get
executed in the call stack yeah we can add one more promise let's say i'm adding here
uh it okay let's say i add a promise dot resolve
dot then let's say i call again a log
a let's say again what i'll do is start i'll again use a set timeout to play around
okay i'm calling a b again let's say i'm using 1000 seconds now okay uh let's say again
uh since i should not call a function i'll just attach it here in the dot then that will take care
of it also i'll do something like log d okay i've added three promises now let's see what is the
execution happening but uh i would just expect like guys can anyone write their output what should
be the output here inside the abcd whatever abcd is there what do you think the output should be
here can anyone guess it what should be the output
uh it's just abcd somewhere type uh so muneshwar says ad uh ad then he says c then he says a
then he says d then he says b me okay good adca so most of them are i think i'm they're guessing
exactly right so let's see this okay if you see log a so most of them have given a answer a as
given a answer a as a first answer so completely agree with your points then when set timeout has
went it went into call stack you and i mean call back you and it is waiting there then
promise dot resolve a log c is waiting in micro task you then log d came in uh log d printed so
everyone says completely correct the line then uh we went uh then we had a you know after the deal
promise dot reserve log a so it went in the call pack you and waited there then
just set timeout again our log b has been waiting here a log d it went into here now
now
now if you see uh some with your answer ad a you says uh are you able to check this so firstly
what what type of uh this queue is what type of queue is this is it first in first out or first
in last out whether it follows p4 or philo
p4 right it was first in first out so cool now let's say once c is printed then uh we'll have
a then a is printed then d is printed right then b and b is printed
right so i hope everyone have understood like this one how this works call back you
uh i'm sorry event loop i'm also call back hell i am the solution for the call back hell using
promises is there is anyone who is still feeling underconfident if they are still feeling under
confident i can talk about it good amount of time but i just need your confidence if there
is anyone who don't understand promises let me know i'll help you out
just rechecking with you guys if there is anyone who don't understand promises
why we went to promises actually what was an issue we can talk on that but here here is
something that i want to do let's say i go for javascript info and i search for the promises here
okay now this is that new topic called promise chaining okay now have we discussed promise
chaining already have you seen this example where we have multiple dot thens right burger example
or the file example right the same topic has been covered now here if you see the new promise first
results then second then then third then okay what i what i want you guys to do is that you
go through this one you go through this examples right in javascript info once and revise this
one you'll be able to understand better okay like actually what happening this bigger fetch like
example right fetch example gives you the better idea are you trying to fetch a data from some
particular server let's say some particular server and if the data fetch call is actually returning
us promise we say that if this fetch call is successful give me that response i'll convert
this into respond into dot text okay then this respond dot text function is then inside that
response that text function also returns you the promise so when it is returning to the promise
we say that return it from here and i'll accept it in next then if this is returning us this is
like series of steps as we have seen that if you have two amount of series we'll add whatever next
promise is there we'll add it in first callback if you see here the comment this returns a new
promise that will resolve with a full response text okay then this is added same way everything
you can guys i would i would request everyone right to understand this one and check on this
like why do we if you if you remember if you remember but i'll show that example next class
like what we have done earlier in examples because that would be enlightening but go through
this documentation and if you face any challenge understanding any topic come back to me we'll
explore this one topic by topic guys because once you understand the gist of it right why we are
using this one or anything you know if you see a problem error handling with promises how do you
handle the errors this is a simple example that we have seen multiple then blocks and one catch
block right all the examples in a way i have covered with simple examples where
i use file system as my database and even local database where we stored an array and some
burger examples to understand okay next class will also take one more example to understand
this concept completely okay in next class we'll be actually exploring async and await so i hope if
you all guys will be joining me back so that we'll be completing this whole chapter
okay the promises chapter okay whole promises chapter will be covered there
and you can also read about this what this thing let it we'll cover in next class actually
what this promise dot all this once we cover this then i'll then you can go through this one
but meanwhile go through you know promise promise chaining or other things okay i'll pin this link
okay
i have pinned this guys so i hope everyone will go through this and understand this if you
if you see here it also gives the state and result value it has two things and you can always see
like how this they have also added some images to it so you'll be able to get the more gist of it
okay and there is something like you know finally block also which i didn't introduce it
we'll talk about that in next class since we introduced only that thing we'll talk about
finally finally something like you know it's pretty simple straightforward i mean you'll get
it directly if i tell it but let's see that in example again and then we'll but go through
this documentation guys let me know if you have anything if not i'll say that happy we can go and
enjoy and prepare and if you if you are facing any challenge related to preparation or anything
we can sit and discuss we can communicate so one thing we'll do is that i'll start the doubt
session but one thing we'll do is that in whatsapp right anup has given his resume so i'll pick that
resume you can get a water you can get anything that you want but we'll sit together and see his
resume and we can try to give him suggestions or we'll take suggestions from his resume that
what we can do better okay guys so with this happy weekend guys so i'll start the doubt session
and let's get started i'm sorry i've started out session guys
i'm opening whatsapp in my web a second
i think i the burger example was revolving around my head today
it just went for you know i took my mom to mcd i just ate it i thought like i had different
examples but i was able to relate it and was in flow so i took that
but i hope you guys are enjoying right
right
okay great archana says that in doubt session can explain js visualizer nine rate this example as
everyone has different answers so wanted to know how exactly it goes sure i'll do that okay i'll do
that
let's say pull this
okay so is this visible guys firstly
okay
yeah street side burger with cold is ready you can say that now
okay cool so one of the abhinav i can say that kudos to you that you made it into one page
okay appreciate that effort okay so second thing that i can say is that it's two page
okay oh sorry i didn't see that so abhinav converted into one page at any cost
at any cost at any cost no one will have two pages to read or i won't be even looking at it
so firstly one pager is a mandatory thing because if you see what i can talk about is
this space is empty isn't it do you see this empty space
this space shouldn't be an empty and second thing if you see this can get started in the top of
itself okay have you have you guys explored this latex overleaf overleaf
okay you can explore this latex actually you know this is a where you actually
okay then but try to make sure that you make it one page up enough the only that something that
i can add okay you can say that if you say that let's say you want to highlight there might be
n number of projects you might have built but you you can only let's say let's let's go through
it one by one step okay where you can optimize it i'll talk about that thing okay you have
you have provided your certification or actual certified associate professional
bigger certified system architect all cool professional experience if you see your
professional experience and with each professional experience you added a project information
right for what you saw what projects you have built for advent what projects you have built
for mail world what you have built isn't it
so one thing i'll tell you what my opinion i'm telling it i'll scrap this thing
i'll scrap this one i'll scrap this too okay reason i'm telling it i should be able to justify
my previous experiences in this short length itself i don't need an extra space i'll justify
here itself whatever i have done and because they wouldn't be asking they might be asking
you about what's your current organization let's say at where mail world you are working
now you are working as senior soft senior full stack engineer at hydropod right so now they
might ask you like what are the technologies and what are things you are leveraging here
but they might not be interested in getting to know what you have done in your previous
talks are the first talks so you can remove this both the things but if they ask you
just remember it and you can share it and talk about that
do you guys feel this one right do you feel my opinion is right guys because if you go for
previous organization they might ask you what do you what's your current project what's your
roles responsibilities and that's that's a thing that you they might be asking like initial point
of statement they might not be going dwelling into your whole career progress how it been
so we can remove this thing you can justify whatever you have done it what you saw and
advent here itself in professional experience itself okay in this section whatever section
you have written here in this itself you can add this csr tb a separate section under this
below itself and remove this three of them and you'll get enough space
i've been noted this thing that you can remove this three of things and just add this csr tb
here under this one itself okay that will you know move all of this space and you'll have an
more than 70 percent of space will be empty on your page and objective right move this object
there in center line like started from here this end and take it to the full page and add it in
the two liner onto the top okay add it into the two liner that will also work better because this
is something like you're highlighting objective what is just like they might not be much worried
about it now if you see what just happened when we move this into the top you will have enough
space on the left and right we are on one side you had your professional experience now if you
go down you will have this more than 75 percent of page as an empty now in that 75 percent of
space what all things you can add you can add your technology skill set all things will come
then you can add your certifications okay and personal info no one cares you can remove it
i think you had an extra space so that's the reason why you added it but you can remove that
okay i wouldn't care about it yeah certifications are also added twice at times says muneshwara
yeah it added he added here and below also but i would say like let's let's make this shorter
so that this will take less amount of space and add it certifications on so if you see this i
don't need about your schooling level okay in degrees itself in degrees itself i'll make it
itself i'll make it as a mca and bca and 12 that's enough i don't need or like if you have a
let's say chemical engineering from the polytechnique it's better to avoid it
it's better to it's better to avoid it just add bca and mca that's enough like as i'm the reason
i'm taking i'm talking about this is that happy now there might be an criteria when your resume
is being filtered they might check that whether this person is having bcmc or ptech or master's
degree or anything but they might not be checking whether this person is having a school 12th or
other information right so we can remove that information and even for as an interviewer i
won't be needing this information isn't it other than this top level for filtering out whether
this person is eligible this information is not needed got this guys do you agree with this point
i'm just trying to i'm just trying to explain what i'm feeling like because i'm just trying
you to put into the one pager i'm thinking like adding into the one pager where you can mention
your certifications where you can maintain you let's say now if i move it down to two spaces
let's say i've been you know what i'm doing is like i'm moving it to two column space again
on one column space i'll talk on the top once we're getting an objective let's say on left side
i'll get the skill set i'll get technology skill sets on bottom i'll have certifications on bottom
i'll have degree let's say on on left side i'm having skills degree and certifications on right
side i'll have whole space for my talking about my professional experience
that is it needed not much needed that is it that is it is enough i know you have worked really
hard fetching this icons and building it really beautiful but i'm trying it to you know make you
get shortlisted your resume getting shortlisted and a person may not be having to flow around
two pages and you know going through it i hope you got the point
abhinav these are like my top level suggestions yeah i agree that you it it might be really
hectic to fetch these icons and building it it it's look good it looks good but this can act
like a cover letter or anything but i would say right make it as simple as possible now once you
have this data now this data will really help you like store this data because it took five
days but make a resume out of this one itself okay user temp like i can give you the right template
also the template that i was talking about let's say i pick it up that template also
so
i mean i i i wouldn't even add a image in my resume i would try to
run away from that it's it's it's okay if you want to add but
there it's just that it should talk about my skill set and my professional experience it's
nothing else other things i'll work it out as a page 15 you went that level
what do you think this this one will help you like let's say uh luxix cv where uh if you see
what i was talking about let's say left side you have your image and top level let's say on the
above experience i've been let's say on the above experience you as you add your objective
okay then below objective you will have everything related to uh your professional experience which
will take the whole page right side column and move this ratio to 50 50 or 40 60 on the left side
you can add your technical skills on the then you can add your uh certifications and degree that's it
is this clear and you can you can you need not to even add that stars uh so that you can
then give the enough space and maintain the good fonts okay that's my suggestions uh you can explore
other formats also but this is what i got i'm in my opinion
i'm in my opinion
guys is there anyone else who is having a different sort of opinions other than my
uh things if you have anything do let abhinav know so that he can you know work on uh once
abhinav bring backs right uh once he implements that we would i would be uh interested abhinav
if you if you're applying it please share with me uh opendra please convert into one base even
staff engineer side staff engineers will uh have one resume let's say if i google it now why
one pager resume
you know this is coming from adobe guys this is coming from adobe
i mean if you have four pages of resume uh let's say i am an employee working at some some some
company uh i will be running into my meetings and i will be leaving that meeting and joining
you for the interview i'll open that resume and see four pages i won't be reading that much
or two pages i just need simple thing i'll talk about like the moment the i mean when i interviewed
i see that i only read it during i'll say that introduce yourself when he's introducing actually
i'll skip through the resume till that till then i don't really have time or someone wouldn't be
interested to do that even okay so you can you can actually uh
like if you see there are many suggestions why it should be actually one pager
why it should be when it should be two pager what it gives you
like this is that you know it allows you to select your best best qualifications it filter it down
and write it down in one thing clearly helpful
okay guys so i had one question from arjuna arjuna you're there in class
first page is similar theme that uh on the screen
i didn't get your point into pendra
first page is similar theme
okay this this one okay got it okay first page
this one
okay okay earlier blue one itself now blue one the left and right commons
okay got it so is arjuna present in class
arjuna let's let's explore this arjuna that you had question related to visualizer right
now i'm i'm explaining exploring this again explaining this again to you is that firstly
so there is a division between synchronous and asynchronous operations okay whatever synchronous
operations are there they'll directly execute in the call stack that we know okay execute in the
call stack and execute get executed right away but whenever there is an asynchronous activity
we know that they are time taking even so we say that it may be time taking even so it may not be
be we may not be executing this call stack so we say that because if we keep that asynchronous
activity also inside the call stack call stack will be filled and once it is filled the application
will hang okay because we are still executing that same piece of MRT so what we say that whenever
asynchronous activity comes we remove from this stack and we put it into queues and there are queues
are of two types one is callback queue or the task queue and there is another thing is called
micro task queue in task queue all the set timeout set interval dom api events most of the browser
related events right browser related functions whatever is in window object they come inside the
task queue dom per dom rated ad event listener set time or certain time in micro task queue you get
fetch related items fine if let's say there are three events in this there are two events in this
the priority which thing will go which which one will get a first chance to get executed in the
call stack is that micro task queue will have a higher priority compared to task queue this
operations if there are let's say even 100 in this here only one the first 100 this will get
executed only then task you will get the chance okay now let's see this example in life now if
you see when i'm running it when i'm executing log a this is a simple synchronous operation it
will execute right away you see log i got into the call stack it will print it a once this console
log has been done you see next step is set timeout this is a browser limited API so it might take
some time to execute it so it went into task queue and it is still sitting there it is not
getting executed here now the code moves to the line number nine it doesn't execute this one okay
now if you see in the line number nine we say that promise dot resolve now promise is like a
fetch function or the promises generally all the promises goes into the micro task queue if you
see logs event here and then we had log d this is again a synchronous operation so synchronous
get executed directly so it executed so a and d got printed now we had next promise dot result
log a now if you see log a goes into micro task queue because it is again a promise
then we had set timeout log b okay now this set timeout goes into a call back queue
then we had another step called promise start result log d now this again promises goes into
here now call stack is empty when call stack is empty then this they get you know this this task
get executed whichever they run micro task in task queue first the event loop checks that whether
micro task is empty if it is not empty it will execute these things then it will the task you
queue will get the chance now let's say if i try to print log c then log a all things will get
executed one by one then you will get log b from the task queue then again log b
is this clear archana how this is getting executed
first synchronous asynchronous synchronous will get executed instantly all asynchronous operations
are again goes into two things callback queue and micro task queue micro task queue will have
higher priority compared to callback okay so nice explore this one try it around i'll share
this link again in case you have any other doubts i'll again we'll discuss that okay
so hello guys if doubts are clear i have one doubt one file having a simple text another having a
more files like video first file is calling using set timer the second file is using promise dot
micro task another callback big file which will get first or another now kabir
so if your question says that video is there now so firstly i'll tell you something is that
if there is a fetch is happening if video is like fetch is happening but video is trying to convert
into something like machine readable code till that is converted or till that fetch call is
completed api is pulled the data till that it is done it won't come into the queue it will only
come into the queue and wait when that you know that actual timeout or actual api call is being
done it comes into the queue when it is ready to be executable first point is clear why i
added an extra block in a diagram because if you remember i say that when i draw this diagram
i have always told that this is a concept there is another first things are put here then you
have two queues then you have intermediate item right first if you are making a video here
using a promise firstly video uploading or downloading are time taking events until
upload or download are not done completely it won't come and sit in micro task queue
okay once this is data is done it is ready to be executable then it will come
up okay once anything comes into the micro task you whatever amount of time it takes
if there are 1000 events here 1k events and here there is only one even then
1k events will be processed first then only this one event will be processed
okay so always micro task it's a strict rule that it gets higher priority simple
okay that is it so it's it's pretty simple that firstly only the executable executable things
which are ready to get executed comes into the call start okay
welcome because they they didn't show the other one if i if i find another event loop
okay let's search some more things if we have this better events loop to show
this video right have you guys watched this video i'll share this link also
do watch it this was presented in js events like
this happened somewhere in europe i don't remember it but watch this one
now i think this thing will should show it
huh i don't have a stop button kabir are you sitting here the timeout is waiting to get executed
okay i'll say rerun now if you see i'll pause it web aps it it wait it waited here it didn't
get into callback queue it waited here only once it is done it will come okay similarly here if
you say timeout is waiting for the timed out to 2000 seconds complete it only then it will come
into callback similar for the video content also fetch also it works in same way only once it is
ready to be executable it will come in callback here and wait it okay this also gives because
any visualizer rate they haven't built completely if you take up that project also it's good that
you have a callback you margaritas queue and wave is also being shown parallel i try to draw diagrams
and try to show it but if there is someone who have built this is up to an extent this is also
good here you got ability to write code but in visualizer right here what they have done is like
this all code is actually stored here itself in local storage they have written all the functions
you can edit this functions here itself whatever you want to add you can add it here
so
i mean there are multiple things but
let's say they deployed on github.io
okay they they replicated that same thing again right
let's say if you say one two one three they executed same thing but
but you can say check the code if you if you clone this repo right if you clone this repo you'll
get an understanding up to an extent then you can build upon logics that you want to build if you
see he use something like javascript i mean react itself to build this one once we learn react i
would say that someone to clone and build this je loop visualizer let's keep this we'll plan to
do this activity once i will store this file somewhere
i'll bookmark this one as our task for us maybe build a clone for this one
cool
so
some there are some other good nice projects actually that you can leverage
okay this is talking in terms of okay if you see this diagram
okay this is actually talking about in micro task queue like if you see callback queues
input i put queues check queues in depth in depth architecture if you have someone want to explore
there are many things that happens guys but i as for the beginners we talk up to an extent but
in depth right there are too many things happening in js
so
okay
oh nice let's say copy this code and paste it
let's say we paste it here and we say run
okay it shows all the execution phase
expression statement it went to call log a then log execution context if you see this is also
a good example guys execution context is in explored it talks about this operator what this
is pointing to and when it comes to set time out what it does let's see this
is
okay it got hang i think it is not handling the other use cases asynchronous activity
okay current operation it says done let's say if i restart it
or run it
okay it is not doing asynchronous activities it is just doing only synchronous activities
this is half built half built project
it anyways
hello guys then we can close the session for today we can meet back
next week tuesday and where we'll end asynchronous activities then we'll do some of the polyfills
interesting polyfills will build again one of the polyfill i covered already so i'll cover
something extra for you okay
hello then guys good night take care see you on tuesday bye guys no doubts right nothing else
good night guys bye bye
okay
you
